Should the U.S. Crack Down on Sanctuary Cities?

Earlier this month, 32 year-old Kate Steinle was shot and killed in San Francisco. The man charged with the crime, Juan Francisco Lopez-Sanchez, is a Mexican national who was in the U.S. illegally; he has been convicted of multiple felonies and deported several times. He maintains the shooting was an accident. The incident has galvanized discussion over San Francisco's status as a "sanctuary city," one in which, as the Los Angeles Times explained, "local authorities could not hold immigrants for immigration officials if they had no violent felonies on their records or current charges." There are hundreds of such jurisdictions in the U.S. where local officials do not cooperate with all requests from immigration officials. "It's unbelievable to see so many innocent Americans that have been killed by undocumented immigrant felons in recent years," said Jim Steinle, Kate's father, in Capitol Hill testimony. "Unfortunately, due to disjointed laws and basic incompetence at many levels, the U.S. has suffered a self-inflicted wound in the murder of our daughter by the hand of a person who should have never been on the streets of this country." "The tragic murder of Kate Steinle once again underscores the need to end these reckless policies," said House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., who was one of many to call for a change in immigration law after Steinle's death. But San Francisco lawmakers say that the city's sanctuary law wasn't a factor. “Let me be clear: San Francisco’s Sanctuary City Policy protects residents regardless of immigration status and is not intended to protect repeat, serious and violent felons," said Mayor Ed Lee. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, who represents the city, added, "The fact that San Francisco is a sanctuary city, and there are many sanctuary cities; many people live in sanctuary cities across the country, that really has nothing to do with what happened." So should the U.S. crack down on sanctuary cities? Here is the Debate Club's take:

