Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  You all, rest yourselves.  I understand you've been very busy.

Well, good afternoon.  It is a pleasure to be here today for this Veterans Initiative Summit.  I want to start, obviously, by thanking Steve Schwarzman for that wonderful introduction, for his passionate words.  I'll be saying more about Steve in a few minutes, but for now, I think it's appropriate if we give him a round of applause for his extraordinary leadership on behalf of our veterans and military families.  (Applause.)

And of course, I want to thank all of you –- leaders from The Carlyle Group, KKR, TPG Capital, and the 150 companies across America.  Thank you all for joining forces to hire and advance our veterans in your businesses.

Now, as you may know, this issue has been one of our top priorities since the day we first launched Joining Forces back in 2011.  Back then, the unemployment rate for 9/11 veterans was more than 12 percent.  And for the youngest of these veterans, it was even worse -– one in three who wanted a job in this country couldn't find one.

So we knew we had a crisis on our hands.  And that's why, soon after Joining Forces was up and running, my husband issued a challenge to the private sector.  He challenged that sector to hire 100,000 veterans in little over a year.

Now, at the time, we thought this was a pretty ambitious goal, and to be honest, we were a little worried about whether we could meet it.  So our team, we started hustling.  We reached out to companies in every sector –- from construction and high tech to transportation and manufacturing.  We reached out to businesses of all sizes -– from tiny mom-and-pop operations to the Fortune 500.  And everywhere we went, we told employers about the talent, the character and the drive that define our veterans and their spouses.

And today, just four years later, American businesses have hired or trained not just 100,000 veterans and military spouses, not just 200,000 or 500,000 -- no, folks like you across this country have hired or trained more than 850,000 veterans and military spouses.  (Applause.)  And I think we can all agree that this is a breathtaking achievement.  And ultimately, it happened for one simple reason:  because employers realized that veterans are some of the most skilled, motivated, resilient employees they could find.

Our vets have invaluable experiences in everything from operations to logistics to IT.  They've overseen millions of dollars' worth of assets.  They've supervised dozens, even hundreds of their peers.  And when it comes to dealing with stress or pressure, well, you can bring it, because these folks know a little bit about high-stakes situations.

And that's why companies across this country now understand that hiring these men and women isn't just the patriotic thing to do, it's the right thing to do for their bottom line.  And the folks at Blackstone and other leaders here certainly understand this.  In fact, Blackstone, back in April of 2013, as Steve mentioned, they pledged to hire 50,000 veterans across their portfolio in five years.  And today, they are well ahead of schedule, hiring an average of 1,000 employees a month in all 50 states.

And in explaining why Blackstone made this commitment, Steve wrote -- and I'm going to quote him directly -- he said, "It's clear that whatever the mission, these men and women are of the highest caliber and character."  They have proven their value and their immense potential before they even walk in the door.  And I couldn't agree more.

And I'd also like to point out that if anyone knows the importance of a good investment, it's folks like Steve and the leaders of the other firms that are here today.  (Laughter.)    And when these firms make that kind of investment on behalf of their portfolio companies, that's not just one commitment, it's hundreds of commitments that can change hundreds of thousands of lives.

And that's why, today, I am so thrilled that Blackstone and the rest of the leaders here have taken their commitment to the next level by opening up this summit to their competitors.  Can I say that again -- their competitors.  So to be clear, Blackstone and all of you here are so dedicated to supporting our veterans that you're willing to help your competitors acquire the top talent in the country.  (Applause.)

I mean, private equity is one of the most competitive industries in this country; probably the closest thing you can come to hand-to-hand combat on a daily basis.  (Laughter.)  But Steve and Blackstone and all of you are doing this because you know that something bigger is at stake.  And you also know that while we've made important progress, we still have a lot of work to do on behalf of our veterans' employment.

Now, it's true that over the past four years, the unemployment rate for 9/11 veterans has dropped from the 12 percent in 2011 to 7.2 percent in 2014.  And since May of this year, it's been around 5 percent.  That is a significant accomplishment, and it didn't just happen by itself.  (Applause.)  It happened because folks like you stepped up, learned about what our vets and military spouses have to offer, and then you worked hard to set goals, and recruit and hire them.

And in the coming years, as Steve said, hundreds of thousands of more veterans and military spouses are going to be transitioning to civilian life.  So in many ways, our work here is really just beginning.

And let's not forget that these men and women signed up to risk their lives for us.  They and their families served and sacrificed to keep all of us safe.  So if even one veteran who wants a job in this country is unemployed, as far as I'm concerned, that's one too many.

So we need to keep on pushing forward on this issue.  We need to keep challenging ourselves not just to recruit and hire veterans, but also to retain and promote them –- to make sure they can move up the corporate ladder to the leadership positions they deserve.  And we need to ensure that our military spouses can have the careers they deserve too, even as they move across the country every two or three years and juggle all the stresses that come with military life.

So I am thrilled that all of you are joining this effort.  And I want to thank you so much for everything you all have done and everything you will continue to do for our veterans and military families to give them the opportunities that they've earned.  You all should be incredibly proud of what you're doing here.

And now, it is my pleasure to introduce your next panel, this distinguished group here.  (Applause.)  We have a group of veterans and a military spouse -- got to keep representing -- they are all rising stars at several of the companies in this room, and they're going to tell you about their experience in the military and in the private sector.  And they're going to offer some tips on how to recruit and promote other veterans just like them -- because they're everywhere.  I meet them all the time.  You're special, but you know there are others like you.  (Laughter.)

I had a chance just briefly -- say hello to these individuals before we came onstage, and I know they are outstanding.  So I hope you all enjoy hearing from them as much as I enjoy watching their careers blossom.

And with that, I give you your next panel, which is entitled "Transitions and Integration Experiences."

Thank you all so much, and God bless.  (Applause.)

Good morning, everyone.  To say I'm thrilled to be here is -- would be an understatement.  I look forward to this event every year, time that we honor our 2015 National Student Poets.  Don't they look good?  (Laughter.)  They look good.  Bowties!  (Laughter.)  They did them themselves!  (Laughter and applause.)

I want to start by recognizing a few important people who helped to make this day possible.  First of all, I want to recognize Rachel Goslins -- I know, you always say don't even focus on me, but we can't help it.  You've done such great work.  We love you.  You are phenomenal, and we couldn't do this without you -- along with the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities.  Would all the committee members here please just stand for a second so these students know who you are?  (Applause.)  This is the committee who makes everything we do here at the arts possible.  They lend their time, their expertise, their passion.  So you wouldn't be here without these folks.  And they've been rock-solid for me for, oh, has it been seven years?  It's been a while.  (Laughter.)

I also want to recognize the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers, The Institute of Museum and Library Sciences, and, of course, our good, dear friend who's back, Olivia Morgan, who has been the driving force behind this initiative right from the very beginning.  So you're not -- you came here.  She's in San Francisco, she left us.  But she's back and still working hard.  Olivia, thank you.  Thank you for this.  Thank you for your passion.  Thank you for your work.

In just four years, all of you, this wonderful team of people, have developed a nationally renowned program for young poets.  In fact, this year's contest received over 20,000 submissions.  That's just wonderful -- 20,000.  This is a pretty competitive pool too, just so that you know.  You weren't just given this.  (Laughter.)  You competed hard for these spots.  This is an incredible accomplishment, and I am so grateful to everyone for the outstanding work that makes this day possible.

I also want to thank our distinguished poet, Jacqueline Woodson.  Jacqueline, where are you?  There you are, you're right there.  We're going to hear from her later.

And it's so important to have these mentors, these folks who have really built their careers here to be able to share and give advice.  So we're grateful to you for your work, for your wisdom, for your talent, and for taking the time to be here.  So let's give everyone -- (applause.)

Forgive me, I have a cold that I've had for, like, 10 days now.  So pardon my congestion.

But most of all, I want to honor the young people that are standing with me today, our fourth class of National Student Poets.  We have Chasity Hale, from Miami Beach, Florida.  We have Eileen Huang, from Holmdel, New Jersey.  We have De'John Hardges, from Cleveland, Ohio.  David Xiang, from Little Rock, Arkansas -- yes, yes, you guys make sure people know who you are.  (Laughter.)  And we've got Anna Lance, who is here all the way from Eagle River, Alaska.  She gets the prize for the furthest to travel.  (Laughter.)

I'm so proud of you all, really.  I truly am.  And I had an opportunity to meet your families; we got a picture right before we did the pinning.  So I get the feeling that your families are pretty proud of you too today, right?  Let's see the parents, the mentors who all -- please take a moment to stand so that we know who you are.  (Applause.)  Thank you all.  But here's the thing.  I just don't want you all to be surprised if the next time they miss a chore or don't clean up after themselves that they might not hang this little White House visit over your head.  (Laughter.)

But in all -- seriously, but today is about celebrating these extraordinary young people, but it's also about bringing the power of poetry to kids across the country, which is why it's so important that we pull the media into this and we shine a big, bright light on this small but very talented group of young people.  That's why the President and I launched this program.

And as you may know, the President -- your President is crazy about poetry.  And we both wanted more of our young people to experience the joy and the freedom -- and also the fear that comes with writing poetry.  Right?  I mean, it's a scary proposition, because there's some real fear that comes with exposing yourself in that way.  It's scary to open yourself up and invite the entire world in to witness your deepest thoughts.

I don't mean to scare you to death.  (Laughter.)  But it takes a level of bravery to be that vulnerable, to stand up in this room, this historic place, and lights and cameras, and share something so personal and so precious.  But that is also the beauty of poetry -- how it helps you take all those complex and confusing thoughts and emotions and put them into words.

I experienced this myself when I was your age, because when I was younger I was a pretty passionate creative writer -- and I tried my hand at a little poetry, too.  And I know how powerful that process can be.  Because growing up, my family -- everybody knows we didn't come from great wealth, we didn't have a lot of advantages or luxuries, or things like that.  But my parents always made it clear that the arts -- even though they weren't educated, they knew that the arts -- things like poetry and music and drama and writing -- those things weren't luxuries, they were necessities.  No matter where you come from, they knew that we needed those experiences to feed our souls and to make us whole and complete individuals.

So they did everything in their power, spent every penny they didn't have to make sure we had piano lessons -- and I see the parents nodding -- enrolling us in summer programs at our church where we'd put on plays and we'd do musical performances. I was actually a little fairy once, and I had to sing.  (Laughter.)  I wasn't a good singer, but -- (laughter) -- somehow that must have done something for me in the end.  My parents encouraged me to become a writer myself.

So as a kid, when I was feeling anxious or bored or lonely, I would often sit down and just write and write and write.  And I would get lost in that writing.  And it helped me on so many levels to be able to pour out feelings and frustrations onto paper.  And then eventually I would always feel a little better, more empowered, more in control.

And like many young people, I didn't just get the emotional benefits of writing, I also got the academic benefits as well.  Because as I improved my writing, just because it was fun and it was an outlet, I also improved my thinking –- I was better able to organize my thoughts in class.  I was better able to clearly express my ideas on papers and exams.  It was second nature.

And that's the power of the arts in our schools.  We talk about this all the time:  The arts can actually make kids better students.  And we lose sight of that fact when we eliminate these kind of opportunities.  This is the stuff that hooks kids in.  And the evidence is crystal clear:  Kids who get involved in the arts, they have higher grades.  They have higher graduation rates.  They have higher college enrollment rates.  We could go on and on and on.

So arts education isn't just a luxury that we add on after we've achieved other priorities like raising test scores and getting kids into college.  And we say this every time we do an event.  These are not luxuries, these are absolute necessities.  It's actually critical to achieving those initial priorities in the first place.

So I have an assignment for you guys -- and we all get this assignment, don't we?  I want you all to be ambassadors for the arts, all right?  You are now chosen to go out there and spread the word and to share your gift with as many people as you can.

And I'm sure that you all know plenty of kids in your communities, in your families who can't even imagine being where you are today, standing in this room with all these folks -– kids who've never written a poem.  They've never even written down a thought maybe even.  Kids who never read great poets like Jacqueline, they don't know she exists -- I want you all to find those kids in your lives.  Find them, seek them out.  And some of you are older siblings, so you've young people right in your own orbit who are watching you every step of the way.  I want you to ask your teachers to make sure they're including poetry in their lesson plans.  Be that advocate in your schools and your communities.  Reach out to folks who live around you and could probably use some poetry in their lives, right?

Past National Student Poets have shared their passion for poetry with military families, with Alzheimer's patients, with incarcerated women.  This is sort of the legacy they've left.  They've done really good work once they've left this room to keep spreading the word.

And I want to be clear -- you don't have to find the perfect poem to share.  It's not really even about the perfect work.  It doesn't have to be your most polished final draft.  It doesn't have to be perfect.

I think Chasity said it best -- and this is something she said in one of her poems -- she said:  "We'll use every rusted coin to purchase blessings, and buy plane tickets to destiny."

I love that.  Love that.  And I promise you all that the words you share with others will be blessings -– both to them and to you.   And I want you all to spread those blessings.  I want you to help other young people buy their own plane tickets to destiny –- maybe even to the White House.  You may inspire the next National Student Poets to be standing right here.

I know you all can do this.  Every year we have great young people who take this pledge and go on to do some wonderful things.  This is the beginning of something phenomenal for each and every one of you.  And I am so excited for you.  And I don't want you to be nervous about it.  I don't want you -- I want you to feel empowered by it.  You all can do this.  You made it to this point.  There is nothing you can't do.  And you've all these people who are so proud of you.  It's such a rare gift -- treasure it, share it, make it grow even bigger.

So with that, I want to thank everyone for joining us again today.  And I can't wait to hear all these young people who are going to do a few readings from their work, my favorite part.  So I think I'm supposed to sit down, and you guys know everything else you're supposed to do, right?  (Laughter.) I can get out of the way.  Thank you, guys.  (Applause.)

(Poems are read.)

MRS. OBAMA:  Wow!  What do you say?  What do you say?  I'm supposed to close this out, but I'm speechless.  This is I think one of the most beautiful moments that we have here at the White House.  And you all have to agree that we're sitting in this historic place, with young people who represent all of America, with such talent and passion.  This is special time.  This doesn't happen all the time.  It should happen more, in more special places all around the world, quite frankly.  And hopefully, we all leave here inspired to do more of this -- to lift up these young people and to encourage them and empower them to go out and change the world, because you all clearly can.  You will.  You are.

Jacqueline, thank you for those words, for that inspiration you've given them, for the words that show them their power, for being that mentor.  It's beautiful.

Ashley, we're so proud of you.  You have grown so much.  That's the other thing that's wonderful to watch, is like who you guys will be, what your voices will look like in just a year.  Ashley is like -- you know, you're like a little old lady -- (laughter) -- just all self-possessed and clear and confident in a way that just points out how powerful and impactful this year can be -- and will be for all of you.

Olivia, thank you for that video.  I will say, I don't get to see their year; I get to see the beginning and the end.  But this program, this year of service is at the cornerstone of this. This pinning, this day, this is cool, right?  You'll remember it, right?  You'll tell your kids about it.  Don't lose your pins, okay?  (Laughter.)  But it's the work that you're going to do for the remainder of the year that is really going to change your whole construct of your lives.  And so embrace this year.  It looks like it's going to be so much fun.  I would trade my coming year -- (laughter) -- with your coming year.  I would do that.  (Laughter.)

But, again, we are proud of you, very proud of you.  And it is always an honor to spend this time with you all, and to watch you grow, and to hear your words.  Thank you.  Thank you.  And congratulations.

You all, thank you for being here.  Enjoy.  We'll see you next year?  Yeah, we will.  (Applause.)

Thank you, Mr. President.  It's an honor to be here at the White House Summit for Worker Voice.  And we're really excited to share with you what we've learned today from everybody.

Well, first of all, I hope everybody has had a good time, and I hope the conversations have been useful.  I know that my team that has participated has been incredibly excited and inspired by all the energy and insight and stories that people have told throughout the day.

So my goal is to learn from you.  But I'm also happy to give you my perspective in terms of where we can take this.  My hope is at the end of this session that we can agree to put together some sort of plans for follow-up.  Because the goal here was not to end a conversation; the goal was to begin a conversation, widen it, broaden it, solicit additional ideas from folks who weren't able to participate here today, and then see whether, as a consequence of this ongoing collaboration, we start building a much bigger conversation across the country.

So, Michelle, why don't you kick us off?

Sure.  So I'll tell you a little about Coworker.org.  We're a platform where people can just join together to improve their working conditions and have a voice in their workplace.  And we see worker voice not just as a voice to your boss but also a voice to each other so people can communicate together to improve things.

And this week, we were a platform for a voice to you.  So we got thousands of submissions from our community about what people were wrestling with around changing things in their workplaces and improving their conditions.  And the number-one theme that we heard from folks was that their jobs are changing; the economy is at a moment of restructuring, and everybody from free-lancers to restaurant workers to manufacturing workers are seeing these changes in the workplace.  And they know that we have an opportunity to make those jobs awesome, but we're only going to do that if we have a voice in how they're shaped.

So I can bring up our first question.  It is from Rochelle (ph) in Los Angeles.  She is a gig coder, so she gets coding jobs from an online platform.  And she represents a lot of the questions that we got from folks working in the emerging on-demand economy and then the digital economy.  And she wants to know, how can America better support workers who are working in a digital space and face difficulties, such as a lack of in-person contact, a lack of support from online platforms themselves, and a lack of tools with which to improve their jobs?

Well, it's a great question.  And I think it's important to recognize that the on-demand economy or the share economy is still a fraction of the overall economy, and the overwhelming majority of people still work for employers and go to offices and go to factories.  And so we have to not get too distracted as if suddenly everything has been transformed.

But what is absolutely true is there's this underlying trend where companies, because they have a lot of data that they can process, because of bottom-line pressures, because of the quarterly report shareholder pressures that they're under, and interests in cost-cutting are, across the economy, juggling schedules, pay and benefit systems, promotion systems -- all of which are really disruptive.

And so somebody in the digital space, or somebody in the online -- or on-demand economy is really just one end of this broader spectrum of changes that are taking place across the board.  And what that means is, number one, we have to make sure that workers across sectors understand that their fates are connected; that you can't think, okay, I'm in a union in a factory with a traditional contract and pension, and so I don't have to worry about what's happening to that worker over there.  Because the same problems they're dealing with eventually you may be dealing with.  So that's point number one.

Point number two is that there are going to be certain benefits that traditionally we got through employers that we're going to have to make sure are available to people who are not in a traditional workplace, or are not going to be working for 30 years at a single place.

And to some degree, the Affordable Care Act was designed to fill the gaps.  Eighty-five percent of the people in the country get their health insurance through their employers.  But if they lost their job, if they wanted to start a business, if they're young and they're entering into the on-demand economy, they had no place to go.

So some of our job here is to make sure that for somebody like Rochelle, she's got other ways of accessing benefits that traditionally she was getting through the job.  And that means that, whether it's at the federal level or at the local level, thinking about how do we get paid leave, unemployment insurance, child care help -- how do we get some of these goods packaged so that -- primarily we're getting them through employers, and we continue to put pressure on employers through unions and through organizing to give a better deal to workers -- but also, if people are falling through those cracks, how can we fill those cracks effectively.  So that's point number two.

Point number three is, for us to -- I understand that in some of the sessions people pointed out that consumers have power.  And typically, if you are in one of these digital spaces, a lot of those companies are pretty sensitive to PR and the barriers to entry are not that high.  And if I have a choice between choosing a company that is providing me some sort of IT help, and they've got a reputation for being really good to the people who are working for them, and another company that has a reputation for being really bad to the people who are working for them, I'm going to choose the people who are doing the right thing.

So I think part of this is going to be making sure that we help link folks like Rochelle to the people in this room and to unions and others so that there is a workers' movement across the economy.  Number two, figuring out where are there gaps in benefits and security that was traditionally provided through employers, and we can fill those gaps through national policy or state and local policy.  And number three, enlisting consumers to help put pressure on companies to do the right thing by their workers.

And all that requires organizing, and that is always an important piece of business in whatever it is that we're going to be trying to accomplish.

Absolutely.  And I know that folks in the room also have some stories about organizing around lifting up workers and this economy. Earlier today, Eijen (ph) was speaking on a panel and talked about the Good Work Code that just got launched yesterday.  And I wonder if you'd like to share that with us.

We got a mic?  We won't be able to hear you.

Thank you for the opportunity.  At the National Domestic Workers Alliance, we represent nannies, caregivers and housekeepers around the country.  And as we started to talk to more workers in the on-demand economy, we realize that they face many of the same challenges -- lack of stability, lack of predictability of hours and of work, and of access to a safety net.  And so we worked with a lot of those workers and our members to develop what we call the Good Work Code, which is a set of eight simple values for how to make the on-demand economy a really good place for the people who are working there.

And we want to work together with companies and the workers and all the people in the workers' movement to actually move towards those shared values, because we think that there's a lot of promise that the on-demand economy can hold if we actually make sure that it's a great place for the people who work there.  So the Good Work Code.

And I would also say to Rochelle that I hope she joins an organization, because we need people to be organized and build this movement.  Join a union or an organization.

Can I ask a follow-up question?  And that is, the Good Work Code that you developed -- obviously, that only works if you've got a couple of key industry leaders who sign up and then you've got customers who are willing to put some pressure on others in the space and in the industry.  And give me a sense of how that worked initially with nannies and daycare workers and so forth, and how -- what were some of the biggest barriers to getting started and getting moving on that?

Q    Well, one, we really needed to tap into networks and get the word out that we were organizing.  And now, technology actually enables -- like through organizations like Coworker.org -- there's a real, enormous opportunity to scale our ability to get the word out.  And with employers, what we found was a lot of employers wanted to do the right thing and it just wasn't clear what that was.  There were no standards, no guidelines.  Many parts of the economy are like a Wild West, where there really isn't -- there aren't clear standards and guidelines.

And so one of the things we all need to do is actually promote good standards, really be clear about what those are -- which is part of what the Good Work Code is about -- and then spread the word among our networks, leverage platforms like this one to talk about opportunities to work together and come together to move forward.

In the work with domestic workers, we actually found a lot of employers did support -- their caregivers and their nannies are part of the backbone of how their households function every day.  It's the work that makes all other work possible.  And we also found that legislators taking action, passing a domestic worker bill of rights, and really supporting legislation that makes clear what the standards are and should be, that this is real work that deserves dignity like all work -- that that sent a really important message to everyone -- employers, families and workers alike.

So I think it's an all-hands-on-deck situation where we need consumers, we need families, we need legislators to take action, to set standards.  We need all of us to help enforce those standards and really carry out the kind of culture change that will support worker voice in the 21st century.

Well, I am persuaded.  (Laughter and applause.)  So you're doing great work.

Michelle, I hope you don't mind, I'm going to hijack the format here just for a second, because I want to have a follow-up that I think is particularly relevant to this group -- and this is an undercurrent, as we were organizing this.

I am a big believer, as you heard me say at the opening, of collective bargaining and unions as a tool to empower workers.  And I think that the work that you just described in terms of good conduct is something that is profoundly needed.  But then I'm interested in how do we prevent that from being a watered-down version of the protections and rights that a union provides.

And so since Mary Kay is sitting right here -- (laughter) -- and SEIU not only organizes similar cohorts but also has been really supportive of creative partnerships, even with folks who are non-union, I thought it would be a great time for maybe Mary Kay just to talk about how we should think about supporting traditional union efforts and strengthening laws where we can, and, at the same time, reaching into these new areas where, for whatever reason -- because of geography, because of industry -- we may not right away be able to get a collective bargaining union, but we don't want those folks to feel as if they're not being served at all and nobody is hearing them.

So why don't you tell us about that.

Thank you so much, Mr. President.  The Terrence Wise story that you told and that Terrence told this morning is the first thought I have as you pose the question, which is, the way fast-food workers work is for a franchise owner where the decisions are made at the corporate level.  And in our country, the current labor law doesn't promote the ability to think in the way that Terrence has done, which is 4 million fast-food workers have the same conditions.  He considers himself a global movement leader.  And can we imagine the principles that you outlined -- work that you can raise a family on, retirement security, and health benefits that you can count on; the ability to form a union without retaliation -- Terrence has been fired, returned to work.  He experiences retaliation every day for standing up.

But could we imagine with the employers in this room -- that was a question I wanted to pose -- when you think about the incredible employer work, imagine if the 10 percent of the employers who respect those guidelines were able to make an appeal to employers across the economy, because 4 million fast-food workers being able to have a national agreement with the multinational corporations in the U.S. like they do in countries around the globe -- which is outside of our current system -- but these workers are creating through their guts and fearlessness and courage, and you're helping to frame by these principles, as a standard that 64 million workers across the service and care sector should be able to expect.

Just like Lou Berry, who is a UPMC worker in Pittsburgh, trying to form a union for four years -- I believe has been fired twice, returned by the NLRB to his job because of retaliation, and because you help appoint people to the NLRB and helped change the rules.  But still his employer won't behave like Kaiser Permanente, who's decided that workers having a voice can actually reduce cost of health care and improve quality for patients.

So I think you're right, that we have to think about how do we make the law that can work for hospital workers who formed unions, but how do we invent through the support of workers, and then getting good employers in this room to call on the rest of the employers to respect work.

And there's two other people -- Pavone Scott (ph) said to me as we left today, she goes, I'm a child care provider in Florida. There's 2 million of us.  I got to figure out how to create an employer, because I'm subsidized, for my children through the state.  There isn't really a direct employer relationship -- 2 million women work like that.  She cares deeply about the children she serves, but no paid time off, no vacation, no sick leave, no Social Security.  There's just what Eijen (ph) was talking about, like how do we think about who she cares for and loves but apply your principles in a way that she could imagine for the tens of thousands of women that do that work in Florida. But really what you want is 2 million women who care for children ought to be respected as much as people that build and make things in this country.  And that's what we'd like to pose today.

And I just want to say that -- I think Secretary Perez told us we will be inspired and challenged.  And I've been really provoked by the collection, the cross-section of us, and that we can imagine how 4 million people could have a collective agreement in fast-food, 2 million women in child care.  But we have to think on a scale that you've challenged us to consider.  And I'm grateful to be here.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

So this leads us actually really nicely into our next question, which is from a campaign creator on our own site.  Aliyah (ph) -- she works in North Carolina.  She's a restaurant worker.  And on her own, she's brought business owners, local elected, customers and workers to the table to raise standard in Asheville, North Carolina for restaurant workers, and to get local businesses to agree to be committed to actually brand restaurants and other places as, this is a great place to work so it should be a great place to buy.

And she asks what more can be done at a federal level to help people like her raise standards in her industry?

Well, you know what's interesting is that -- and this all connects with what's been said previously.  Traditionally there were two tools for workers to have a voice.  One was employers need good employees, and particularly if you had a tight labor market, then employers felt compelled to hire good people and try to keep good people.  And that continues to be important.

But the other was unions were there to make sure that not only at the workplace, and wages and health benefits, that there were some direct negotiations and the workers were at the table and thinking about what was fair for them and that they weren't treated arbitrarily, but also they provided enormous muscle and lift for us to then get federal, state, and local legislation passed.

But there always have been gaps.  And I think the restaurant industry is an example where a lot of federal law did not reach into restaurants the way they should -- which is why, for example, waiters and waitresses and how tips were treated was oftentimes substandard.

And it's not likely -- I'm going to be honest -- that during the remainder of my presidency Congress passes laws to raise standards for restaurant workers.  So I think the work that Aliyah is doing -- Asheville, by the way, is a great town.  So those of you who have not been there -- and great restaurants.  But the kind of work that Aliyah is doing and some of you describe of creating new norms and social pressures at the local level with employers and with customers is a really powerful tool.

And I emphasize the customer side of this because I think most of us are price sensitive and we're not looking to overpay.
On the other hand, I'll bet a lot of folks here, if they go to a restaurant and they know that the people working there are making a living wage, the fact that they might be paying an extra dollar for a burger would feel okay.  Some people might not be able to afford it, but a lot of people could.  It's just you're not thinking about it.  And when you make people conscious that there's a connection between how employers [employees] are treated and the purchases you're making, I think that can have an impact.

I think at the federal level, the minimum wage law is hugely important for restaurant workers.  And since we're not, so far, getting traction at the federal level, the 30 cities and counties that are raising the minimum wage -- and making sure that that minimum wage includes the tip provisions that have been introduced in the legislation that is stalled right now in Congress is really important -- that's one of the most important immediate things that we can do to support folks in the restaurant industry, but also in large chunks of the service industry, generally.

And the last point I want to make, which Aliyah alludes to, in the same way that a lot of us as customers aren't always thinking about workers but we're just thinking about what we're buying and the service we're getting, and we don't make that connection, there are a lot of employers who are actually really good people -- particularly small businesses -- but they're operating on tight margins and they're under pressure.  And part of our goal has to be to work with companies and employers, starting with the folks who are industry leaders oftentimes because -- oftentimes the most profitable -- and to highlight the way that if you have good management, you can actually do right by your employees and still outperform and outcompete others.

And we always use as an example Costco, which the starting salary the last time I checked and the last time I was in a Costco was, what, a year and a half ago, maybe two years ago, but the starting salary for a cashier was like $11.50 or something.  And there were tracks whereby somebody who started at the cash register was suddenly the manager of one of the sections of the store.  They all had health benefits throughout.  They were union-friendly.  And if you look at their stock, they've performed as well as some of their biggest competitors or better.

So what does that tell us?  What it tells us is that this idea that in order for you to do good as a company you've got to squeeze your workers as hard as possible is a fallacy.  But part of the problem in this conversation, and part of the reason we thought it was important to invite some of these employers with best practices, is that so often in the debate this gets framed as a business-versus-labor thing, as opposed to business and labor who are doing the right thing versus business that are trapped in a bad relationship with their workers and are relying on outdated models of rapid turnover and low wages and no benefits.  And the more we can shift to shine a spotlight on those good practices and those effective companies, and to help those companies then work with other companies across industries -- and that's where I think this good conduct and good employer standards comes in -- that can make a really powerful difference over the long term.

And it sounds like Aliyah is doing that in her local level, and that's something that I think we all have to learn from.

Lola Smallwood Cuevas, from the Black River Justice Center, told a great story today about the ways in which they've been able to raise standards in Los Angeles.  And I'd love for her to share that story -- both with Aliyah, who is listening, and with you.  She's right there.

There you go.

Q    Thank you, and thank you for the opportunity and for convening this amazing and inspiring day.  In L.A., what we're doing is community unionism -- black workers who are in horrific crisis are partnering with unions, we're partnering with other worker centers, community-based organizations to make a difference and to create pathways.

And we've had some success, thanks to the administration's special rule that helps us to have targeted hiring in our city and to make that an opportunity for workers who want to get into good construction careers.  We're excited about the pilot, which is going to create even more opportunities for workers to get access to jobs, and we're hoping to see changes that will allow now for us to begin to really do -- to modernize industry culture so that we can ensure that African American workers and women have an opportunity to make construction a career that can support them, their families, and communities.

We're doing that at a very small scale in Los Angeles, but the most -- simplest -- what we see as a simple rule update would go a long way to making a difference in the lives of workers.  And so as we're building this new, sort of untraditional model of organizing and unionization in our communities, we'd love to see more support around how do we create new industries that are open to all, and create more equitable workforce.  (Applause.)

Well, I think we're very proud of what Lola said.  Look, something Lola said that I suspect the economists in the room will heartily agree with, and that is that -- remember what I said in terms of leverage with workers at the outset.  One of the best pieces of leverage is a tight labor market.  So I don't want to ignore the fact that smart policies that, for example, finance the $2 trillion worth of infrastructure repair that we need in this country would be a really powerful tool to give workers more of a voice, because now you got a whole bunch of folks who are engaged in jobs that can't be exported.

Those transportation or public works projects that are taking place in your community, Lola, now provide a platform for apprenticeship programs and a pipeline for bringing in the unemployed into the job market.  It makes it a lot easier for us to have discussions about fair pay and fair wages and reduced turnover and sick leave.



So this conversation does not replace the need for us to have economic policies that are going to help grow the economy faster and put more people to work.  And there's more that we can do.

I'm very proud -- we came in at 10 percent unemployment and we're down to 5.1.  But what we also know is people are underemployed; people are fearful of job change.  And typically, that's how you get a raise, is oftentimes going to a new job -- or at least having the option of going to a new job, so your employer says, hold on a second, what do you need to stay?  And so there is still slack in the economy, and we could be doing more.  Congress could be doing more in order to alleviate some of that.

But that's not the primary focus of our conversation.  I just wanted to make sure we didn't lose that thread, because I don't want us to let our policymakers off the hook in terms of encouraging policies that will have businesses grow faster.

Part of the reason -- when I talk to employers -- and some of these are really big, successful employers -- is they say, you know what, if the economy is only growing at 2 percent, 2.5 percent per year, I can make a profit without ever hiring additional people.  And if I start seeing some growing demand, I've probably saved enough, I've got enough money in the bank that I can automate a little bit more and it's easier for me to control my costs.

So there's a big difference between let's say 2 percent growth and 3 or 3.5 percent growth.  And we could achieve 3 and 3.5 percent growth even in this new economy if we weren't doing some counterproductive things, some of which are compounded by even more counterproductive things being proposed in some of these presidential debates -- but that's whole other piece of business.  (Laughter.)  This is not a political event.

So you'll be glad to know that you and John from Lima, Ohio, have a lot in common.  He also is very concerned about the growing use of permatemps -- and would likely agree with you that he hates that word, like you said this morning.  So he has been watching people he knows working at companies for up to six years as temporary workers, and he wants to know, frankly, is there anything that can be done at all?

I think there is.  But this is an area where we're probably going to need some changes in the law in order to provide more levers to get companies who are not doing the right thing to do the right thing.  And some of you probably heard Tom Perez talk about some of these issues earlier, maybe in some of the workshops, but the broader audience that may be watching at this point, since I assume this is being live-streamed somewhere, may want to hear it.  So why don't we give Tom the mic -- because he has been spending a lot of time thinking about this at Department of Labor.

There are a lot of issues around classification, overtime, temporary workers, independent contractors versus actual employees.  And there are a lot of games being played to get around both collective bargaining, but also to get around overtime pay, getting around paying basic benefits.  And that means we're going to have to, in some cases, redefine what we think of as employees.  And that's going to be a tough lift.

Tom?

Thank you, Mr. President.  The first thing that comes to mind is a conversation we had this morning.  We heard from Robert who is a permatemp.  Robert, you still here?  Oh, here he is, right here.

And then we talked about the issue of culture -- what kind of culture do you want to have in your workplace.  And we heard from Kaiser.  We heard from Market Basket.  You talk to New Belgium Brewery, you talk to Container Store, you talk to that guy from Shinola, and you see they've created --

Yes, absolutely.  And bicycles.  And you see the culture they've created.  It's a culture in which they understand that their most precious resource is their human capital.  And I asked I think it was Joe from Market Basket, how could you have a situation, Joe, where you had two Market Basket employees, both there for six years, and one was a temporary employee making a fraction of what the other person was making.  And he said that's totally inconsistent with our culture.  It wouldn't happen, I think were your exact words, Joe.  And we heard that from so many other people.

So step number one, and it gets back to some of what Eijen was saying -- is when we have this code of conduct, permatemps are inconsistent with inclusive capitalism.  And so I think we should start with that.

What we also have in terms of regulatory tools, as you referenced, and as Senator Obama, he was focused on this issue because what we have seen, regrettably, with some degree of frequency over recent years is that employers at times will misclassify someone.  Someone who acts like an employee should be an employee and they're called an independent contractor.  When I was in Maryland working on this issue -- it's called misclassification here in Washington.  I don't like that word because that sounds like you put it in the wrong file.  We called it in Maryland what I thought it was, which was workplace fraud, and where I grew up, it was called cheating.  (Laughter.)

And the victims of cheating are the employee who is called an independent contractor when he or she should be a worker.  The victims are employers who play by the rules.  And one of the most frequent sets of complaintants in our cases are employers -- I'm paying my workers, I'm paying their worker's comp, I'm treating them like an employee, I'm trying to bid on contracts, I keep getting low-balled by that company who is paying everyone cash under the table.  So you've got employer victims.  And then the tax collector is a victim.

And we hear a lot in the worker's comp context about worker's comp programs are starting to have trouble with their fiscal stability and it's because they've got a denominator problem.  There's not enough people paying into the system.  And that's because there's cheating going on.  And so we spend a lot of time on this issue.

There's an appropriate place for independent contractors, there absolutely is, but we have seen with all too much frequency dishwashers called independent contractors, dry-wallers were employees on a Friday and then they're independent contractors on a Monday.  We see it across sectors.

And so these are some of the issues -- and we have a pretty robust practice.  And then Senator Obama had a bill that dealt with this at a federal level, and we do a lot of work at a state level because it's about leveling the playing field.  And so many people feel frustrated, and they don't want to speak up because  -- and I heard this last night, Mr. President, when we met with six or seven workers.  The most frequent thing I heard is, I know I can do better, but I'm scared to come forward.  That's why Robert today is a pretty heroic figure for being here, because they're scared.  And John in Lima is seeing this firsthand and we see it -- we've got a pretty robust practice in this.  (Applause.)

So speaking of employer culture, I wanted to bring up the next question that we got from a young worker in Atlanta, Georgia named Christy (ph), who organized thousands of her coworkers mostly using social media.  And young workers are  -- they're used to being able to talk about everything online and to having an open conversation about what's happening in their workplaces and in their lives and in their families.  And she wants to know, how do we encourage employers to embrace worker voice?  Because as we know, this new generation of workers are going to be speaking out more, using all of the platforms at their disposal, and she wants to make sure that they're able to do so without fear of retaliation.

Well, look, every employer is going to have some sensitivities about the people who are working for them grumbling.  I mean, that's just the nature of things, because they're worrying about their bottom lines and they're worrying about competitive pressures, and they're trying to keep everything together.  And there's a natural defensiveness I think that we all have -- when I try to tell my daughters to do something, they're not my employees, clearly -- (laughter) -- they're kind of, what are you talking about?  But what you discover, as I said earlier, is, is that the best employers, the most effective employers are the ones who are actively soliciting worker input.

And when you create a culture in which the worker knows that their opinions are valued, that in turn means that they're more invested in the success of the company and seeing their ideas moving forward.  And this was, by the way, the principle at the heart of how the Japanese automakers cleaned Detroit's clock for a long time until -- even though we invented this idea of continuous improvement, a lot of it had to do with listening to what folks on the ground were saying.  Because if you were up in the board room, you didn't know what was going to make the assembly line work better, you weren't going to figure out how are we going to reduce our error rates.  The folks who were going to figure it out were the folks who, every day, were sitting staring at this stuff and saying, you know what, this is a stupid way of doing things, and we should do it this way.

So already -- and represented here are employers who understand that and they're actively soliciting input.  The question, though, is when it comes to some more sensitive areas like wages, are employers, even good employers, as open.  And I think that this is where the culture issue that Tom raised is important.  And this is where consumer pressure is important.  To the extent that employers recognize they'll have better employees by listening to employees, and the employees feel safe enough to then say, you know what, we're having problems because what you're paying us right now doesn't pay the rent, and we know that a bunch of us are having to moonlight, and we're dog-tired when we come to work, and if you gave us a little bit of paid sick leave you'll get it back because people will feel so much more loyal to you -- if they're open to hearing that, then -- or if it's a safe space for them to be able to say that, then those companies will find ways of doing it and, in fact, ultimately be even more profitable.

But that's why it's important for us to lift up those companies that are doing exactly that.  Look at best practices.  And I'd be interested, maybe some of the companies who are here might have a comment on how they built that culture.

And we've got Kaiser Permanente represented, we've got Shinola represented -- some great employers here.  Anybody here, the employers, want to talk about what allowed you to make that cultural shift?  And here's the other question, though -- be honest about why even employers of goodwill might be hesitant to provide more voice to workers, and what are the ways in which we can break down some of those barriers and make employers less defensive or less worried about it.

Anybody?  Tom, you want to try it out?

Q    So I think what you're saying about consumers having a lot of power is really important.  And I think in today's world, brains are really being born on the inside.  So I have an example of when it really hit me.  First of all, what we were trying to do, first of all, is a philanthropic thing.  We were going to create a company that had 100 employees.  We were going to make watches for other watch companies like Tiffany and Lovato.  And we had to make some watches to show our customers what we could make.  And so we made 2,500 watches that we were going to ship in three or four months.  And we were asking customers to pay $550 in advance for a watch that we were barely sure we could make -- nobody had ever touched it before.  And we had a picture of our workers as our marketing.  And the demand came through the roof.
And it hit me at that moment that people are responding to what's going on inside the companies.  People want to know where their food is being made.  People want to know who is making their products.  And that's really what we're focused on is making them happy.  So if people come to our factory and they see people making double minimum wage, and giving people hugs instead of other things that are going on, I think that it comes through in the product.  And that's what we're trying to do.  (Applause.)

Again, thank you for this great day.  It's been great to participate.  I feel really fortunate.  As I said earlier, Kaiser has been on a long journey in terms of our labor- management partnership.  And there are several things.  One is really hard work.  No one should assume that it's easy.

And part of the work has been to really educate and train our leaders and managers differently so that they understand that being able to engage and to share power, to share decision-making doesn't make them less in terms of leadership.  It's also been a process of where we've had to really work with and educate our union partners.  And we do that together, because they come to the table differently, because we come owning what is it that we're trying to solve, what is the organization's interest, what is labor's interest and how do we own this and how do we work it through?

The other thing I would say is that I think in terms of people who haven't walked this path or haven't been there, there is this sense of giving up power.  There is this element of fear. I mentioned earlier that as we bring new leaders into the organization, sometimes they struggle with what does it mean to kind of engage with a unit-based team?  What does it mean to let the team own and do this work?

One my colleagues here at in LVN from Colorado is actually with us.  One of the unit-based teams in Colorado that has been working on post-acute discharge actually reduced the return admission rate for our Medicare patients by 50 percent and saved like $6 million.  And they did that because the physicians, the staff came together, they identified the indicators that were causing patients to come back into the hospital.  They developed the tool.  They focused the homecare -- the visits on those indicators and actually improved care, improved service, and made us more affordable.

So our experience has been that while it's hard work -- because we have to be focused on the entries, we have to listen  -- we also have to free up people's ability to share with us.  Because, culturally, when you're the CEO or you've got different roles, people have to become comfortable engaging with you as an equal.  So we have to allow people to be present to us and be present with them.

THE PRESIDENT:  I think that's a great point.  And on the other side -- because you mentioned unions had to change some of their attitudes and thinking, as well -- one of the virtuous cycles that you want to get into is a situation where the workers feel valued and listened to, which means that when a company has a problem, a challenge, a change that has to be made, now because the workers remember, yes, I've got paid sick leave, and, yes, the employers always treated me fairly, so I'm going to come in with a mindset of how do we solve this problem, as opposed to, no to whatever changes.

And that I think is a lot of times what some businesses may fear -- not that they're trying to hurt workers, but they may not have flexibility to respond to a changing marketplace.

And one of my favorite stories -- and I talked about this in Osawatomie when I made a speech about economic fairness and inequality -- was a story of a company that, during the depths of the recession in 2008, 2009, 2010 -- and I forget what kind of -- it was a manufacturer, but it was a family-owned company, and because they felt that their workers were family, and because they felt that there was a community behind them, they said, we won't take a salary until we get us out of this hole.  The workers then said, rather than lay off a bunch of people, we'll all engage in a work-share and reduce pro rata how much we're taking in, but that way nobody is bearing the full burden of this thing.

And in a couple of years, they had come out of it stronger than ever.  But the point was that they had already established this culture.  And it wasn't just the employers, it was also the employees.  But the employees had to see that the employer was setting an example of caring about them.

And I do think that -- as President, I meet with a lot of CEOs.  And a lot of them are really smart people and they're producing really good things, and highly philanthropic.  But part of the reason issues of CEO compensation are sensitive to folks is not because workers are jealous and they want lifestyles of the rich and famous, it's the sense that if, in fact, there are greater competitive pressures out there, how much is everybody willing to give up to meet those competitive pressures as opposed to putting it all on the backs of workers.  (Applause.)  And that I think is -- that's a mindset that has to change.

And that also, by the way, is fed by, in public companies, this quarterly report mentality, which is challenging to change. Because our economy is designed right now -- bonuses, incentives, whether a CEO keeps his job -- so much of it is just based on short-term profits, and it makes it much more difficult.  The company I just described was not a public company, so they could make a decision without a bunch of shareholder pressure.

And one of the things I've been wrestling with and talking to our teams about is, are there ways to nudge the economy in a direction where companies can make longer-term investments, invest in their workers, understanding that it may not pay off this quarter, but we're going to be a stronger company five years down the road or 10 years down the road.

But this is really deeply embedded right now in how our economy -- how so many of our public companies think, even when a lot of the CEOs will express privately that they'd like to be thinking more long term.

All right, fair enough.  So the next question came to us from Sunday, a freelancer in New York.  And she reflected a lot of the questions that we got not just from freelancers but a lot of folks who were struggling with pay.  And her particular question was about the fact that sometimes freelancers aren't even paid for their work, and there are no mechanisms available to them right now to actually insist on being paid aside from small claims court.  And so her question is, what will you do to help both small business owners and freelancers actually get paid for their work?

This is a great question, and I don't have an immediate answer.  When it comes to federal contracts, one of the things that smart people like Jason Furman, my current chair of the Council for Economic Advisers, and Gene Sperling, former head of our National Economic Council, thought of while we were still trying to find ways to boost business and aggregate demand -- they figured out, you know what, a bunch of our small businesses who are subcontractors or down the supply chain to the federal government, they're not getting paid long enough -- or fast enough.

And it doesn't matter when -- well, I won't say it doesn't matter -- but Boeing may be able to survive it, taking a little bit longer to get paid, but some of their smaller suppliers cannot.  And we actually changed how our payment systems worked to accelerate it, and it really helped a lot of small businesses. I mean, we loosened up a bunch of money into the economy.  Those are the kinds of tricks you work on, particularly when Congress isn't passing the laws that you need for them to pass to boost the economy.

But I haven't actually spent a lot of time thinking about are there best practices that we could institute.  But what I do know is the federal government, state governments, city governments, they're big employers and they're big consumers -- obviously, the federal government is the largest consumer in the world -- and so setting up best practices for them then can encourage best practices to be adopted throughout a particular industry.

But, Jason, anything else you want to add on that?  Any other ideas that we've had?  Because I'm sure this is something that has come up with SBA and others -- oh, wait, we've got a volunteer.

Sarah Horowitz has been leading the way on these questions.

Q    Well, I like to say help is on the way.  So thank you so much and thank you, Mr. President, for this really exceptional time to really be breaking ground and thinking about the next frontier, and to the great Michelle Miller and Coworker for their great work.

So in New York City right now, we have Freelancers Union -- it's a national organization, 300,000 members of freelancers -- who have not been misclassified -- who really do the great work of the country and really contribute in so many ways.  And one of their biggest challenges is that they don't get paid.  The average freelancer has been stiffed $6,000 a year; 70 percent of all freelancers have experienced nonpayment at some point in their life.  And that's why we are launching the "Freelancing Isn't Free" campaign.  (Laughter.)

I will say, though, next time you need a bigger poster.  (Laughter.)  Because for those of us over 50 it becomes harder to read.  Anyway, go ahead.  I'm teasing.

Q    And while the press is taking pictures, let me say that's the hashtag, because at the City Council, we are now having legislation that will make it that you -- a company has to hire a freelancer with a contract, and we are hoping that they will have double damages, attorneys' fees, so that freelancers can get paid.

The second problem is freelancing now, as I think you were alluding to, is on a 30-60-90 day invoicing system.  Imagine if you did work and you didn't get paid for three months.  It's just really unconscionable, and some of the biggest companies are doing this.  And so this is a national campaign joined by great unions like the Teachers Union, 32BJ SEIU, The Domestic Workers, so many others to really say this -- getting paid is one of the most important things.  So help is on the way, as we like to say. (Applause.)
Yes, one more.  So this is a short one.  Michael from D.C. wants to know how the White House can help to raise awareness about worker co-ops as a source of good jobs, which I think -- baked into the structure of worker co-ops is worker voice.

We had someone applaud right here and this is one of our great partners working on a whole range of issues so go ahead, please.

Q    Thank you very much, Mr. President.  I think that is a very, very important --

Introduce yourself, first of all, to everybody.

Q    My name is Gustavo Torres from CASA.  Thank you very much.  This is a very, very important issue and we believe that that is the way how we can bring voice to the workers because -- not only voice but also power.  Because we believe that in addition to have the voice, they are going to be able to share the wealth.  And that is the reason why it is so important that the White House and your administration really review that opportunity to be able to take the proceeds and make sure that the co-ops are treated like more businesses, because that is exactly what they are.  So thank you very much.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Good.  Well, worker co-ops, employee ownership -- the more we get people invested in business models in a whole range of ways, the more we align workers' interests with the business interests, I think the stronger our economy is going to be.  And it points to some of the ways in which we can make sure we've got broad-based growth.

Let me just wrap up, Michelle, by saying this -- and I want to repeat what I said on the front end.  The genesis of this meeting was conversations that I had with Rich Trumka and Mary Kay and some of the folks who were working in the new on-demand economy and our folks in house, and the belief that for all the successes that we've made in recovering the economy, if we don't solve this problem, then it will have an adverse effect on our long-term competitiveness and it will have an adverse effect on our democracy -- because America works when we are building a broad-based middle class and there are ladders of opportunity that everybody can reach.  And historically, it doesn't work and not only does our economy but our politics also turn in a bad direction when you start seeing huge separations between how folks at the top are doing and everybody else is doing.

And what I said to my team was how can we foster a conversation to start getting more creative -- because we've looked very narrowly at what can we get through Congress, what can the NLRB do, but we haven't come up with as many new models as we need to.

And I used as an example a single mom who is working in an office park somewhere who maybe has been misclassified or is getting cheated, knows that she doesn't have sick leave, doesn't have overtime pay, but, frankly, feels isolated, doesn't have recourse immediately to a union someplace, doesn't have the time -- because she's got to take care of her kids -- doesn't have time to go to a town hall or a union meeting, but would be very interested if she thought that there was a way for her to join up with others in order to promote her interests.  And so that was how this thing got started.

The reason I wanted to share that with you is to say that this is the beginning of a conversation that I want to push for the next 15 months, through the end of my presidency.  And the ideas that have been generated from these groups, we're going to try to collate, we will then distribute.  And then I'll make sure that my team is working with the various organizations and individuals that are represented here to think about how do we then follow up in concrete ways around these issues -- whether that means doing some regional summits or more localized summits to talk about very particular issues; whether it's identifying three or four ideas that have enough traction that we want to start pushing them real hard; whether it is attaching more publicity to a particular organizing drive that's taking place right now, or taking an idea that involves branding good practices and starting to lift that up more.

I don't know yet what you guys will determine are the best ideas, but we're going to be seeking your input.  And that's how we're going to make sure to follow up.

I guess what I'm saying is, is that we provided the platform, but you own this thing.  And so this is not one of those situations where you had a nice time, you took some pictures -- (laughter) -- and then six months from now, you're all like, well, what did Obama do?  That's not the deal here.  (Laughter.)

All right, the deal is I will work with you around the ideas that you identify.  And we'll work together.  And hopefully this will be the start of reversing some trends -- both economic and cultural -- that have been around way too long.

All right?  Thank you, everybody.  Good job.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you so much.  (Applause.)  Well, everybody, please have a seat.  Welcome to the White House.  Let me offer at the outset the observation that Terrence could run for something.  (Laughter.)  But we're so grateful to you for sharing your story, for everything you're doing to organize and inspire Americans across the country.  You already recognized your mom, Joann, another fast-food worker who's come up today from South Carolina.  This is actually a remarkable moment:  Neither of them make enough money to be able to afford to travel much, so this is the first time Terrence and Joann have seen each other in 10 years.

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE PRESIDENT:  Ten years apart because they don't earn enough to be able to just hop on a plane and visit each other.
The only problem I have with this story is that I am not sure that Joann is old enough to actually be Terrence's mom -- (laughter) -- based on how she's looking there.

Their story describes why we wanted to have this summit.  Their story describes why workers need a voice.  That's why our Secretary of Labor, Tom Perez, is here -- and I should add, this is a pretty good way for the Labor Secretary to celebrate his birthday.  (Applause.)

That's why we've got our outstanding leader in the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi here.  (Applause.)  And Senator Al Franken is here.  (Applause.)   And Congressman Gregory Meeks is here, and Congresswoman Frederica Wilson is here -- because they have consistently been on the frontlines of championing the interests and the concerns of ordinary people who are working hard every single day, and aren't asking for the world -- all they're asking for is dignity and living wages and being able to take care of their families.

That's why we've got business and labor leaders here today, including the head of the AFL-CIO, Rich Trumka, who's been fighting these issues for decades.  And that's why we've got workers and organizers and tech experts, and so many others at this first-ever White House Summit on Workers Voice.

And we convened this summit because we believe that this is a country where if we work hard, everybody should be able to get ahead; that the story of America has been each successive generation, getting an education where they could, working hard, saving, scrimping, making sure their kids get a little something better, hoping that at the end of the day they're able to have a home of their own and be able to retire with some dignity and some respect, have basic benefits so that if they get sick, their families aren't bankrupt.

And make no mistake, Americans have been working harder than ever to bring this country back, to move it forward.  After the worst crisis in my lifetime, back in 2007, we were able to take the unemployment rate that was around 10 all the way down to 5.1. Businesses were shedding about 800,000 jobs a month; today, they've created jobs for 67 straight months -- 13.2 million jobs in total.

When I took office, our auto industry was flat-lining. Manufacturing had been in decline for a decade.  Today, we're on pace to sell more American cars than in any year since 2001.  (Applause.)  And we've seen stronger job growth in manufacturing than any time since the 1990s.  Our manufacturers are coming back; hundreds of thousands of good middle-class jobs are being created.

When I took office, more than 15 percent of the American people were uninsured; today, only 9.2 percent are uninsured.  For the first time on record, more than 90 percent of Americans have health insurance.

So we've made progress together.  At a time when America's economy was flat on its back, we took some tough steps, not always popular, and we were able to get the economy growing again.  But what I've said all along is that it wasn't enough just to get back to where we were before the financial crisis, before Lehman's, before the Great Recession.  We had to tackle problems that had been building up for decades.  And the central problem in our economy that had been building up for decades is the fact that while folks at the top did very well, ordinary workers were seeing their wages and their incomes flat-lining.

And so the biggest challenge America continues to have is making sure that everybody in this new economy is participating, everybody who works hard is getting paid a decent wage with decent benefits, everybody has some basic economic security, and that the incredible productivity and wealth and innovation that has been a hallmark of the American economy is broadly based.

Wages need to rise more quickly.  We need jobs to offer the kind of pay and benefits that let people raise a family.  And in order to do that, workers need a voice.  They need the voice and the leverage that guarantees this kind of middle-class security.
And that's true now more than ever, during this time of rapid economic change.  In recent years, we've seen an explosion of American innovation in the workforce.  And because of technology, people are empowered and employers are empowered to create value and services in new ways.

We've got folks who are getting a paycheck driving for Uber or Lyft; people who are cleaning other people's houses through Handy; offering their skills on TaskRabbit.  And so there's flexibility and autonomy and opportunity for workers.  And millennials love working their phones much quicker than I can.  (Laughter.)  And all this is promising.  But if the combination of globalization and automation undermines the capacity of the ordinary worker and the ordinary family to be able to support themselves, if employers are able to use these factors to weaken workers' voices and give them a take-it-or-leave-it deal in which they don't have a chance to ever save for the kind of retirement they're looking for, if we don't refashion the social compact so that workers are able to be rewarded properly for the labor that they put in -- people like Terrence -- then we're going to have problems.

And it's not just going to be a problem for our politics -- creating resentment and anxiety -- it's going be a problem for our economy because the history shows that when we do best as an economy it's when workers have money in their pockets and they're able to buy goods and services.  And they, in turn, create new demand, and create new opportunity, and create the kinds of markets that businesses can then take advantage of.  That's just a fact.

So we've got to make sure that as we continue to move forward, both in this new "on demand" economy and in the traditional economy as a whole, hard work guarantees some security.  And that's what this summit is about -– making sure that, as our economy continues to evolve, working Americans don't get lost in the shuffle.  They can come together and they can win.

And we can do this.  We've done it before.  There was a time when we shifted from an agrarian economy to an industrial economy.  And as we did, we made some adjustments to our arrangements.  We said, you know what, we're going to offer everybody a free public education.  We put together the New Deal, put in place systems like Social Security so that people had some basic protections in their golden years.  We put together labor laws that allowed for collective bargaining, and banned child labor, and allowed people to raise their voices and have some leverage in seeking a living wage.

Labor unions were often the driving force for progress.  The 40-hour workweek, overtime pay, health insurance, retirement plans.  The middle class itself was built on a union label.  (Applause.)  And that middle class that was built was the engine of our prosperity.  And people at the top were doing just fine during these periods.  We had a lot of wealth.  The top 1 percent, the top 10 percent still claimed a much larger share of income and wealth than everybody else, but it was in the context of a dynamic economy where wages and incomes were rising and most Americans felt stable and secure.  The future looked brighter than the past.

Now, the economy is changing again.  Technology has made it easier for companies to do more with less.  They have world markets and the capacity to shift operations along the global supply chain.

Special interests argued that worker protections -- including unions themselves -- were to blame for middle-class struggles, and, unfortunately, too many folks bought into that.  So union enrollment dropped precipitously.  Oftentimes companies became more sophisticated about keeping out unions.  Workers, fearing that they might lose their job to off-shoring or to moving down to a right-to-work state, felt less confident about negotiations.

Our culture as a whole started somehow extolling greed is good, instead of, how do we work together to create a good society for everybody.  Jobs, as a consequence, began paying less, offering fewer benefits.  And in recent years, we've seen more companies cut costs by hiring contractors and "permatemps"  -- workers who are laboring side-by-side with full-time employees but don't earn the same pay and benefits and job security.  That's a bad phrase -- permatemps.

The bottom line is, as union membership has fallen, inequality has risen.  Union membership today is as low as it's been in about 80 years, since the ‘30s.  And I believe that when folks attack unions, they're attacking the middle class.  They're attacking cops, firefighters, teachers, nurses, service workers, public servants, auto workers, plumbers, Americans who keep our streets safe and clean, who prepare our food, who clean up after us, who care for our aging parents.

And so, in today's economy, we should be making it easier, not harder, for folks to join a union.  We should be strengthening our labor laws, not rolling them back.  (Applause.) And for contractors or workers who can't join unions, we should be finding new avenues for them to join together and advocate for themselves as well.

There's a saying that I think Lee Saunders -- where is Lee? He's in here somewhere.  There he is, right next to Rich over there.  He likes to quote this -- "If you're not at the table, you're on the menu."  (Laughter.)  So we've got to get more working Americans to the table.  But in order to do that, we have to acknowledge that you can't just keep on doing the same things thinking you're going to get a different outcome.

So part of the goal of this summit is to think creatively about how do we have a growing movement around the country to empower workers, to give them a sense of possibility.  And we're seeing some of that happening here, some of the people who are represented here.  Workers are organizing online at sites like Coworker.org to fight for new protections.  Fast-food workers like Terrence are organizing for a raise -- with the support of the labor movement, and they've scored major victories in New York and L.A.  We've got the National Domestic Workers Alliance  -- an organization of caregivers and housekeepers and nannies -- who teamed up with Care.com to make sure these workers got the support that they deserve.  It's called The Fair Care Pledge -- and employers who take the pledge voluntarily agree to pay a fair wage, and set a clear example and provide for paid time off.

So we've got to look for new tools to bring people together, because in today's economy, it's not always going to be a situation where you just have one plants and one worker and one organizing drive; it's going to be workers who are not always on a single site.  And we've got to find ways to make sure that they can express their solidarity in new ways.  And that's where technology actually can help in the same ways that in the past sometimes it's hindered.

And then we need to engage businesses to lead the way, as well, because there are businesses out there who are taking the high road and enlist their employees as partners in their shared future, and understand that if they're investing in their employees and making them partners, that they'll actually do better, not worse.  They'll do better for shareholders.  They'll do better for the community.  They'll do better for America.

So you got New Belgium Brewing that opens up its books and its strategic decision-making process to employees -- and they also make really good beer.  (Laughter.)  Kaiser Permanente works with 28 different unions to provide good pay and benefits, but also educational programs, and avenues for employees to help improve quality and care throughout the company -- which is why they're considered one of the premier health organizations in the country.  Cumberland Farms convenience stores connects employees and leadership through apps and online platforms, and that leads to more input from employees and higher retention rates and better service.

So there are good things happening in America.  But the question is:  How do we scale up?  How do we draw best practices and start changing mindsets?  How do we help working folks and their families get ahead?

So we're here today to think about where do we go next.  We've got to ask ourselves:  What does the next generation of American jobs look like?  How do we make sure those jobs reward hard work?  At a time of shrinking union membership, but a growing number of digital tools for organizing, how do we make sure everyone who works hard has a chance to get ahead?

And how do we change public attitudes so that people who are frustrated feel empowered and not isolated?  I think this is very important.  We're entering into political season -- and I won't make a big commentary on all of that.  Obviously, I'm a proud Democrat and I think we have better answers on a lot of these questions.  But I will say this.  The fear, the apprehension that can express itself in all kinds of ways -- anti-immigration sentiment, resentment towards people who don't look exactly like you do, some of the anger that can express itself in not very productive economic policies -- a lot of that is fed by just people feeling anxious about their futures, and feeling alone and feeling like they've got no control and that nobody is listening.

And so part of what we've got to do is to tap into people who are frustrated about their job paying so little, people who are frustrated about industries that used to be in their town leaving, rightly frustrated about how hard it is to save for retirement, rightly frustrated about the fact that they can be replaced at any time with very little protections -- and make sure that they understand there's a positive way to deal with these issues that will actually produce and deliver change, and make things better -- not just for them, but for all workers.  We got to help people feel connected and not isolated, and hopeful, not just fearful.

And that requires that we do some self-examination about how we approach these problems.  And I'll be honest with you -- I've had conversations with our union leadership about this -- you've got a whole millennial generation who knows they're not getting a good deal in the workplace but don't consider joining unions, in part because the laws have been set up to make so hard to unionize, but also in part because they don't live in a town where everybody is working in the same plant and there's a tradition of going to the assembly hall, and they haven't seen their parents or grandparents for generations participating in joining in same ways.  And they connect, but they connect in different ways.  And we've got to adapt to that -- try to find new ways of bringing people in.

So that's why you're all here today to come up with some answers.  I've got ideas, but this is a hard problem and it's going to require creativity and effort from all of us.  And we've got leaders from labor, business, and government; we got some of the brightest minds in organizing and economics; and we've got folks like Terrence and his mom, Joann, some of the hardest working Americans in the country.  So you are in charge for the day.  I'm eager to hear your ideas and your solutions.  I know there are going to be some breakout sessions.

I'm going to come back and have a town hall and hopefully be able to hear some of the discussion that's been taking place.  But I do want to start the discussion by just offering a set of common-sense principles for what it means to work in America.

First -- if you work hard in America, you should earn enough money to support your family.  (Applause.)  And if you're working two jobs, like Terrence, then your family should never have to go to bed hungry.  (Applause.)

Second -- if you work hard in America, you should earn decent benefits.  And that means access to the two bedrock sources of lifelong security, and that is affordable health coverage and retirement savings.  (Applause.)

Third -- if you work hard in America, you have the right to a safe workplace.  And if you get hurt on the job, or become disabled or unemployed, you should still be able to keep food on the table.  (Applause.)

Fourth -- if you work hard in America, you should be able to take care of those you love, which means having sick leave and parental leave and affordable child care, and predictable schedules that give your family some stability.  (Applause.)

Fifth -- if you work hard in America, you should have a pathway to the education and training you need to grow your skills and earn raises and promotions and the chance to get ahead.  (Applause.)

And finally, if you work hard in America, you should have the freedom to decide for yourself -- without fear or interference -- if you want to join with others to advocate for yourself in the workplace, whether that's through a union or any other means.  And these are core principles that helped build this country.  (Applause.)

So I'm sure there are going to be a lot of ideas coming out of these discussions, but these are the guideposts that we need to stay focused on:  Good pay; benefits; workplace safety; work-family balance; skills training; the freedom to organize.  That's what unions secured for us.  That's what we have to secure for the next generation of workers.

We've done a lot of work on these issues -- extending overtime protections, helping workers collect fair pay that they've earned, ensuring paid sick leave for federal contractors. Seventeen states and 30 cities and counties so far have answered my call to raise the minimum wage.

There are few policies that have done more to provide Americans with financial security than Obamacare.  Because insurance plans on the new federal marketplace are affordable and portable, folks now have the power and peace of mind to switch jobs, or start a new business, or make a living in the on-demand economy without worrying about whether they're going to get sick.

So we're going to continue to do everything in our power to help working families get ahead.  And we're going to still have to worry about short-term politics even as we try to shift long-term perspectives here.  Congress has to do its job right now and pass a budget that strengthens protections for America's workers, and invests in the education and job training that prepares our workforce for the future.  And they need to strengthen paid leave and expanded child care, and raise the minimum wage for Americans across this country.  (Applause.)

They should pass the WAGE Act -- a bill that cracks down on employers who violate labor laws, and that makes it easier for workers to organize.  (Applause.)

And I'll end on this point.  You can't wait for Congress.  (Laughter.)  No, no, I'm just saying.  We've got incredible champions like Nancy Pelosi and members of Congress who are here, but this is a fight on the ground.  We've got to change an attitude and mindset that says there's nothing we can do, or giving workers more voice means inefficiency and we won't be competitive, or suggests that there's a contradiction between economic growth and decent wages, or suggests that we should have a race to the bottom with other countries, or suggests that somehow the current arrangements in which a growing amount of what we produce in this country going to the top .001 percent is in the natural order of things and is somehow fair and just.

Those are attitudes that we have to change.  And that's going to happen on the ground.  And that will then reflect itself in politics, and that will reflect itself in new laws being passed.

But we've got to give people examples and models, and work where we can to make a difference where we can.  And that will give people confidence and hope, and can start triggering the kind of broader movement that channels people's anxieties and frustrations in ways that are good for our future.

So I want to hear from you about the challenges you're facing right now, the successes you've earned, the ideas you have to strengthen workers' voices across the country.  I will come back later this afternoon.  I don't expect you to come up with all the answers today, but I do want to make sure we're asking the right questions and that we produce a set of relationships and work streams to really get this going.

If we do that, then we're going to be able to keep America a place where, when you work hard, you can get ahead, and more importantly, you can see your kids and your grandkids get ahead.

Thanks, everybody.  I'll see you this afternoon.  (Applause.)

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Well, it is a great honor to have a great friend of the United States, President Gauck, visit the Oval Office.  It gives me an opportunity to repay the hospitality that the President extended to me during one of my visits to Germany.

Although it's well-known in Germany, for American audiences, some people may not be aware of the President's extraordinary life and the role that he's played in creating a modern, unified, democratic and peaceful Germany.  As a pastor and a democratic activist in Eastern Germany, he played an important role in giving voice to the aspirations of all those who sought a unified Germany that reflected the values that we now see in that great country.

And as Germany recently marked an important milestone in reunification, it's a great reminder that not only was reunification important for Germany, but it was important for Europe, it was important for the transatlantic relationship, and it was important for the world.

Germany obviously is one of our strongest allies.  And the President continues to give voice to the importance of the U.S.-German relationship, to the values of tolerance and democracy and human rights and freedom that are so important to both of our countries.  On a wide range of international issues -- from the tragic situation in Syria and the need for a humane response to the refugee crisis, to a peaceful resolution that prevents Iran from getting a nuclear weapon -- the President's voice has been clear in helping Germany make its mark on the world's stage and serve as an incredibly important partner for us.

And I think his travel itinerary here in the United States, visiting Philadelphia and seeing the Liberty Bell, visits here to the King Memorial and the Lincoln Memorial, I think are indicative of the shared values, both democratic and religious and humanist, that are so important to the President, important to Germany, and important to the American people.

So we welcome him.  I look forward to an excellent discussion about how we can further deepen our already extraordinarily strong ties, and deeply appreciate the work that he's done on behalf of Germany and on behalf of the world.

PRESIDENT GAUCK:  (As interpreted.)  Mr. President, I would like to thank you very much for having invited me.  Your invitation reaches me at the age -- at a time where I've turned 75.  And in that life span of mine, the United States of America have twice expressed their strong support for a cooperative development of Germany, and thus have had a positive influence on German development.

And my visit has to be viewed in a broader historical context.  Seventy years ago, Germany suffered a vast defeat, a defeat that then turned into a liberation for the country.  Many Americans gave their lives at that time in order to bring out that liberation.  Twenty-five years ago, my country became reunited.  Americans like the then-President George W. Bush Senior and other Americans have expressed their strong support firmly and early on in ensuring Germany became united.  One cannot but express one's gratitude for that fact.  And this is how I want my visit to be understood.

It is in this context that you have mentioned the places I've had the pleasure to visit during my visit here.  In Philadelphia, I went to see the Liberty Bell and Independence Hall.  I went to the room in which important documents of importance for the integrity of the United States of America -- freedom for everyone, that is -- a nation of liberty on display.

I went to visit the Lincoln Memorial to remember Martin Luther King, and thus I expect that, above and beyond the topics that we will discuss today and that we need to discuss because they are of importance and affect us these days -- my visit is also to be understood as kind of pilgrimage to the birthplace of a country that embodies very important concepts and ideas -- ideas that are important for the American people, but also for the history of mankind.

Thus, I have the expectations that, as I said, of course, we are going to talk about topical issues, but we will also have the opportunity to address the odd problem in that context, but I also want to do that, expressing my full awareness of the fact that relations between our countries and peoples are firmly based on a solid, longstanding foundation.

Mr. President, I am very grateful that you have raised a topic that has turned to a burning issue these days, one of the major problems on our agenda -- that is, the present situation in Syria, which is very complicated and complex indeed.  We are not yet in a position where we could claim that we have found the appropriate response to this problem and this crisis, and as the crisis unfolds, we are faced with a situation that faces another difficult situation for us, and that is the great influx of a great number of refugees, of people who are fearing for their lives and thus are leaving their home country.

Now, Germany, because of its history, is a country that shows great readiness to allow these people into its country to offer asylum for these people in dire need.  And this is why this issue has very much moved into the focus of political debate and to the top of Germany's or Europe's political agenda these days.

We are much aware of the fact that this is a major humanitarian challenge that we have to address.  And my hope would be, my wish would be that a realization that that awareness does not only exist in Europe, but it's also something that is recognized in the United States of America.  And I also have the sincere hope and wish that we may succeed in finding a solution on the one hand for these people who are fleeing their country, but also a solution that will allow us to tackle the problem at its root causes.

We are very close here, Mr. President.  Every side is trying to do its bit.  And I'm very grateful for the fact.

It is in this sense that I would like to convey the heartfelt greetings of the Federal Chancellor to you, Mr. President.  At the same time, I would like to thank you for the very kind words you have found as regards my personal life and myself as a person.

I still remember very fondly the joy felt by the German people when you for the first time came to pay a visit to my country.  And that feeling of openness and joy was a feeling that was addressed to you, Mr. President, but it was also German hearts going out to the American people and to the Nobel Peace Laureate, Barack Obama.  And I think that that is an illustration of the fact that, despite the disagreements and misunderstandings that occur every once in a while -- and I think that is only natural, in a way, amongst partners -- we are very close.  We are cooperating closely.  We share common values.  And I would wish to underline this here now once again.

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Thank you very much, everybody.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, yesterday we announced a new trade agreement across the Asia Pacific region that reflects American values and gives our working families and American businesses a fair shot, creates a level playing field.  The Trans-Pacific Partnership took five years to negotiate, and I wanted to get the best possible deal done for American workers and American businesses, and that is what we have achieved.

This agreement makes us more competitive by eliminating about 18,000 taxes, tariffs that are placed on America's products in these other countries.  Just to give you a couple examples, Japan puts a 38-percent tax on American beef before it ever reaches market.  Malaysia currently puts a 30-percent tax on American auto parts.  Vietnam puts a tax of as much as 70 percent on every car American automakers sell in Vietnam.

Under this agreement, all those foreign taxes will fall.  Most of them will fall to zero.  So we are knocking down barriers that are currently preventing American businesses from selling in these countries and are preventing American workers from benefitting from those sales to the fastest-growing, most dynamic region in the world.

This agreement opens up new markets for goods that are made in America.  Last year, we exported more than $2 trillion worth of goods and services, which supported about 11.7 million American jobs.  That's the fifth straight year that we had set an export record.  But when 95 percent of the world's markets are outside of our borders, we've got to do even better than that, particularly at a time when our economy is actually doing better than a lot of other countries and they want to sell stuff here.  We've got to make sure that we're able to sell stuff over there.

With this trade agreement, which spans nearly 40 percent of the global economy, we're going to be able to sell more products, more services, American agriculture, American manufacturing -- we're going to be able to get those to markets, and American companies that produce here in the United States are not going to be disadvantaged relative to these markets.

Keep in mind that when there are high barriers in these countries, oftentimes that's when a lot of American companies feel compelled -- if we want to reach those markets, we've got to go produce over there.  If the tariffs are down, if the taxes are down on goods made in America, that means U.S. companies that are investing here are able to sell over there without a disadvantage.  That's what American leadership looks like in the 21st century.  That's why this agreement also sets high standards for one of the fastest-growing regions of the world.

This agreement has the strongest labor standards of any trade agreement in history, including setting fair hours, prohibiting child labor, prohibiting forced labor.  It includes the highest environmental standards in history, and prevents overfishing, and makes sure that wildlife trafficking isn't decimating wildlife that are a world treasure.

And so unlike past agreements, these standards -- high standards around labor and environment -- are actually enforceable.  If countries aren't abiding by them, then they don't get the benefits of selling to the United States under the terms of this agreement.  And, under this agreement, we, rather than countries like China, are writing the rules for the global economy.

So I've said repeatedly that I would only sign an agreement and present an agreement to Congress if I could be absolutely certain that it was good for American workers and good for American businesses, good for American farmers and good for American ranchers, and good for American manufacturers.  We have met that standard in this agreement.

So this week marks an important step forward, but there's going to be a long, healthy process of discussion and consultation and debate before this ever comes to an actual vote.  And we committed properly that we would post this agreement, every crossed t and dotted i, on a website so that everybody is going to be able to look at it.  We are going to be talking not just to members of Congress, but the American public and various constituencies, and governors, and mayors who are represented here about why this is good for their communities.

And so we're going to have months before this actually comes up for a vote.  People are going to have plenty of time to go over it.  I suspect that there will be some misinformation that is propagated around this, as there usually is in these debates.  But I'm also confident that the case to be made for why this is good for America is sufficiently strong; that ultimately we're going to get this done, and it will be an enormous achievement for us to be able to make sure that 40 percent of the world's economy is operating under rules that don't hurt us, but instead help make sure that American workers and American businesses are getting a fair shot, and that made in America, those products and services can be sold in places where there's going to be significant demand.

So I want to thank everybody around this table.  This is a diverse constituency.  A lot of different groups are represented here.  We want to thank all of them for their work in getting us to this point, and now helping us get across the finish line.

Thank you very much, everybody.

THE PRESIDENT:   Thank you.  Craig, thanks for that introduction, but more importantly, thank you for the outstanding work that you and your team do all across the country every single day.  For those of you who know Craig, you know that he is cool under pressure, no doubt because he got his start -- started his career as a firefighter.  I want to thank Congressman Steny Hoyer, Fire Administrator Ernest Mitchell, Chief Dennis Compton, and everybody at the National Fallen Firefighters Foundation for bringing us together here today.  And most especially, I want to say how honored I am to be with the families of the fallen, and express the gratitude of the nation for the sacrifices that you and your families have made on behalf of others.

Scripture tells us, "As each one has received a special gift, employ it in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God."  Employ it in serving one another.  Every single day, across our country, men and women leave their homes and their families so they might save the lives of people that they've never met.  They are good stewards -- serving their neighbors, their communities, our nation with courage, and fortitude and strength.  We can never repay them fully for their sacrifices.

But today, we gather to honor 87 brave firefighters who gave their lives in service to us all.  Our prayers are with their families, many of whom honor us with their presence today.  You remember them as moms and dads, siblings and spouses, friends and neighbors.  Today, we remember them and salute them as the heroes that they were.

It's hard to think of a more selfless profession than firefighting.  There's a reason why firefighting occupies a special place in our imaginations; why little boys and increasingly little girls say, I want to be a fireman, I want to a firefighter.  They understand instinctually that there's something special about it.  Imagine what it takes to put on that heavy coat, and that helmet, and override the natural human instinct for self-preservation, and run into danger as others are running away; to literally walk through fire knowing that you might never make it out because you're trying to save people that are strangers.

And yet, the fallen that we honor today would probably have said that they were just ordinary Americans who were doing work they believed in, carrying on a tradition as old as America itself.  There's a humility that seems to be part of being a firefighter.  From rural communities to inner cities, those we honor today lived a fundamental principle that binds us all as Americans -- that I am my brother's keeper, I am my sister's keeper, that we look out for one another, that there's something bigger than each of us individually that we have to be true to.

We honor men like Michael Garrett of West Virginia.  Mikey, as he was known, started out as a junior firefighter at the age of 16, became an EMT by 18, was on his way to graduating with an associate degree in emergency services.  His mom, Faith, says Mikey was always smiling, always a practical joker -- if you turned around, your cell phone would be in the pool.  And he was always the guy you could call on in a pinch.  No matter how busy he was -- between school and work and being an EMT instructor himself -- he'd be there to help.

And in February of last year, Mikey was pulling a seriously injured utility worker out of harm's way when a cell tower came crashing down.  And he was only 28 years old -- 28 years old.  He's survived by Faith, his dad Dale, his four siblings.  And he will always be remembered by his community as a good man devoted to helping others -- that's who he was.  And he typifies what it means to be a firefighter and to serve others.

That's who Kevin Bell was, too.  Kevin was that rare combination of full-time firefighter and part-time DJ.  His wife, Wayette, says that the day he graduated from the fire academy in Connecticut was one of the happiest days of his life.  And he truly loved his work, and his kindness and generosity were widely known.  And like so many firefighters, he never talked about his heroic actions.  His daughter, Raquel, says that she would later hear from those he had helped, above and beyond the call of duty.  The friend he had assisted after a car accident.  The classmate he drove to the hospital after an epileptic seizure.

Last October, Kevin gave his life battling a house fire.  He is survived by Wayette, and Raquel, his parents, and his siblings.  Because of the role model Kevin was, there are African-American kids in his Hartford neighborhood who want to be firefighters just like him.  And one day, they'll be able to go to work in the Kevin Lamont Bell Fire Station.

We honor heroes like Malcolm Jenkins of Louisville, Kentucky.  Malcolm was the "go-to-guy" in the firehouse; no task was too big or too small.  He was the guy who could fix anything, which his wife Sharon says taught his three daughters an important lesson:  Marry a man who can fix everything that you can break.  (Laughter.)

Malcolm was a farmer when, many years ago, the county put out the call for volunteer firefighters.  He rose to become a major, and helped develop the Kentucky Regional Fire Training Academy, which has trained hundreds of firefighters to serve their communities.  Last October, Malcolm succumbed to a heart attack.  And today, in Malcolm Jenkins, we remember not just a great firefighter, but a loving son, husband, father, grandfather, and friend.

These are the kinds of individuals we honor today.  And even as we honor these 87 heroes, we know that their work is carried on by firefighters all across our nation -- by so many of you --with that same bravery, and that same dedication, that same sense of duty, that same humility, that same love of country.

In recent years, you've battled some of the most severe wildfire seasons in American history.  So far this year, nearly 50,000 wildfires have burned more than 9 million acres -- an area larger than the entire state of Maryland.  At the season's peak, 32,000 firefighters were battling blazes from California to North Carolina.  Thirteen have lost their lives.  And today, we honor them as well.  And we reaffirm that, as a nation, we must work to prevent fires, and we must give firefighters the equipment and the support that they need to get the job done and to come home safe -- that's what we owe every one of you.  (Applause.)

And finally, this memorial also pays tribute to names that do not appear on this wall.  It's a testament to you, the families of these individuals.  The families who stand alongside every firefighter across this nation.  Because the brotherhood of firefighting doesn't stop at the firehouse door.  It extends to every community across our country -- to every mom and dad, every spouse, every child who waits for their loved one to come home at the end of a shift.  All of you are united by an unbreakable bond of strength and sacrifice.  This is your family, too.

For the families of the fallen, we know that words alone can't ease the pain of your loss.  But perhaps it helps a little bit to know that the American people stand with you in honoring your loved ones.  We admire them.  We cherish the work that they do.  We hold you in our hearts, today and always.  We offer you our deepest condolences, and our prayers, and our eternal gratitude.

These are extraordinary people that we honor here today.  They're extraordinary Americans.  They set an example for us all.  May God bless these fallen heroes.  May he watch over their families and all who protect us.  May their shining example inspire us all in our own lives -- "As each one has received a special gift, employ it in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God."

Thank you.  (Applause.)

WASHINGTON, DC — In this week's address, the President emphasized that we need to do everything we can to strengthen economic growth and job creation.  This week, despite the fact that more than half of Republicans in Congress voted to shut down the government for the second time in two years, Congress managed to pass a last-minute bill to keep the government open for another ten weeks.  That means that in December, we could face yet another Republican threat to shut down the government.  The President emphasized that Congress needs to stop kicking the can down the road and do its job.  He stressed that Republicans and Democrats need to work together to pass a budget that fully funds the government and reverses the harmful sequestration cuts, and vowed that he would not sign another shortsighted spending bill like the one Congress sent him this past week.

Hi, everybody.  Yesterday, we learned that our businesses created another 118,000 new jobs in September.  That makes 67 straight months of job creation, and 13.2 million new jobs in all.

But we would be doing even better if we didn't have to keep dealing with crises in Congress every few months.  And especially at a time when the global economy is softening, our own growth could slow if Congress doesn't do away with harmful austerity measures.

Now, on Wednesday, more than half of Republicans in Congress voted to shut down the government for the second time in two years.  Fortunately, there were enough votes in both parties to pass a last-minute bill to keep the government open for another ten weeks.  Unfortunately, that gimmick only sets up another shutdown threat two weeks before Christmas.

Look, that's not the way America should operate.  It just kicks the can down the road without solving any problems or doing any long-term planning for the future.  And that's why I will not sign another shortsighted, short-term spending bill like the one Congress sent me this week.

Here's why.  A few years ago, both parties agreed to put in place harmful, automatic cuts that make no distinction between spending we don't need and spending we do.  Those cuts have actually kept our economy from growing faster.  Even worse, they're actually undermining the middle class.

Here's one example.  If we don't undo these mindless cuts, then next year, we'll be funding our kids' education at the same levels per pupil we did in the year 2000.  Compared to my budget, that would be like cutting federal funding for 4,500 schools, 17,500 teachers and aides, 1.9 million students.

That's not good for our kids or our economy.  It's a prescription for American decline.  And it shouldn't happen.  We should invest in things like education today, or we'll pay the price tomorrow.

Congress should do its job, stop kicking the can down the road, and pass a serious budget rather than flirt with another shutdown.  A serious budget is one that keeps America strong through our military, our law enforcement; that keeps America generous through caring for our veterans and our seniors; that keeps America competitive by educating our kids and our workers.

That's what I want to work with serious people in both parties to achieve.  Because that's how we'll build on the progress of 13 million new jobs, and help the middle class get ahead.

Thanks everybody, and have a great weekend.

THE PRESIDENT:  I'm going to take a couple of questions from the press.  But first, a few additional pieces of business.

First of all, we learned today that our businesses created another 118,000 new jobs in September, which means that we now have had 67 straight months of job creation; 13.2 million new jobs in all -- and an unemployment rate that has fallen from a high of 10 percent down to 5.1 percent.  These long-term trends are obviously good news, particularly for every American waking up each morning and heading off to a new job.

But we would be doing even better if we didn't have to keep on dealing with unnecessary crises in Congress every few months. And this is especially important right now, because although the American economy has been chugging along at a steady pace, much of the global economy is softening.  We've seen an impact on our exports, which was a major driver of growth for us particularly at the beginning of the recovery.  And so our own growth could slow if Congress does not do away with some of the counterproductive austerity measures that they have put in place, and if Congress does not avoid the kind of manufactured crises that shatter consumer confidence and could disrupt an already skittish global economy.

On Wednesday, more than half of Republicans voted to shut down the government for the second time in two years.  The good news is that there were enough votes in both parties to pass a last-minute bill to keep the government open and operating for another 10 weeks before we can get a more long-term solution.  But keep in mind that gimmick only sets up another potential manufactured crisis just two weeks before Christmas.

And I've said this before, I want to repeat it -- this is not the way the United States should be operating.

Oftentimes I hear from folks up on Capitol Hill, "the need for American leadership," "the need for America to be number one."  Well, you know what, around the globe, part of what makes us a leader is when we govern effectively and we keep our own house in order, and we pass budgets, and we can engage in long-term planning, and we can invest in the things that are important for the future.  That's U.S. leadership.

When we fail to do that, we diminish U.S. leadership.  It's not how we are supposed to operate.  And we can't just keep on kicking down the road without solving any problems or doing any long-term planning for the future.  That's true for our military; that's true for our domestic programs.  The American people, American families deserve better.  And we can grow faster and the economy can improve if Congress acts with dispatch.  It will get worse if they don't.

That's why I want to be very clear:  I will not sign another shortsighted spending bill like the one Congress sent me this week.  We purchased ourselves 10 additional weeks; we need to use them effectively.

Keep in mind that a few years ago, both parties put in place harmful automatic cuts that make no distinction between spending we don't need and spending we do.  We can revisit the history of how that happened -- I have some rather grim memories of it.  But the notion was that even as we were bringing down the deficit, we would come up with a sustainable, smart, long-term approach to investing in the things that we need.  That didn't happen.  And so now these cuts that have been maintained have been keeping our economy from growing faster.  It's time to undo them.  If we don't, then we will have to fund our economic and national security priorities in 2016 at the same levels that we did in 2006.

Now, understand, during that decade, between 2006 and 2016, our economy has grown by 12 percent.  Our population has grown by 8 percent.  New threats have emerged; new opportunities have appeared.  We can't fund our country the way we did 10 years ago because we have greater demands -- with an aging population, with kids who need schools, with roads that need to be fixed, with a military on which we are placing extraordinary demands.

And we can't cut our way to prosperity.  Other countries have tried it and it has not worked.  We've grown faster than they have because we did not pursue these blind, unthinking cuts to necessary investments for our growth.  And by the way, because we've grown faster than them, we've brought our deficits down faster than they have.

I want to repeat this because the public apparently never believes it.  Since I took office, we've cut our deficits by two-thirds.  The deficit has not been going up; it has been coming down -- precipitously.  We've cut our deficits by two-thirds.  They're below the average deficits over the past 40 years.

So the bottom line is, Congress has to do its job.  It can't flirt with another shutdown.  It should pass a serious budget.  And if they do, and get rid of some of these mindless cuts, even as we're still prudent about maintaining the spending that we need but not spending we don't need and is not working, their own non-partisan budget office estimates we're going to add an extra half-million jobs to our economy next year alone.  We can immediately put half a million more people back to work if we just have a more sensible budget.

And in these negotiations, nobody is going to get everything they want.  We have to work together, though, even if we disagree, in order to do the people's business.  At some point we have to want to govern, and not just play politics or play to various political bases.  At some point, we need to pass bills so that we can rebuild our roads, and keep our kids learning, and our military strong, and help people prepare for and recover from disasters.  That is Congress's most basic job.  That's what our government is supposed to do -- serve the American people.

So with that, let me take some questions.  And I'll start with Julie Pace of AP.

Hang in there, kids.  (Laughter.)

Q    It will be over soon.  Thank you, Mr. President.  There have been several developments in Syria that I wanted to ask you about, starting with Russia's involvement.  You met with President Putin earlier this week, and I wonder if you think he was honest with you about his intentions in Syria.  If Russia is targeting groups beyond the Islamic State, including U.S.-aligned groups, does the U.S. military have an obligation to protect them?  And on the situation in Syria more broadly, there have obviously been failures in the U.S. train-and-equip program.  Do you believe that that program can be fixed or do you have to look at other options?  Would you, in particular, be willing to reconsider a no-fly zone, which several presidential candidates, including your former Secretary of State, are now calling for?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, first and foremost, let's understand what's happening in Syria and how we got here.  What started off as peaceful protests against Assad, the president, evolved into a civil war because Assad met those protests with unimaginable brutality.  And so this is not a conflict between the United States and any party in Syria; this is a conflict between the Syrian people and a brutal, ruthless dictator.

Point number two is that the reason Assad is still in power is because Russia and Iran have supported him throughout this process.  And in that sense, what Russia is doing now is not particularly different from what they had been doing in the past -- they're just more overt about it.  They've been propping up a regime that is rejected by an overwhelming majority of the Syrian population because they've seen that he has been willing to drop barrel bombs on children and on villages indiscriminately, and has been more concerned about clinging to power than the state of his country.

So in my discussions with President Putin, I was very clear that the only way to solve the problem in Syria is to have a political transition that is inclusive -- that keeps the state intact, that keeps the military intact, that maintains cohesion, but that is inclusive -- and the only way to accomplish that is for Mr. Assad to transition, because you cannot rehabilitate him in the eyes of Syrians.  This is not a judgment I'm making; it is a judgment that the overwhelming majority of Syrians make.

And I said to Mr. Putin that I'd be prepared to work with him if he is willing to broker with his partners, Mr. Assad and Iran, a political transition -- we can bring the rest of the world community to a brokered solution -- but that a military solution alone, an attempt by Russia and Iran to prop up Assad and try to pacify the population is just going to get them stuck in a quagmire.  And it won't work.  And they will be there for a while if they don't take a different course.

I also said to him that it is true that the United States and Russia and the entire world have a common interest in destroying ISIL.  But what was very clear -- and regardless of what Mr. Putin said -- was that he doesn't distinguish between ISIL and a moderate Sunni opposition that wants to see Mr. Assad go.  From their perspective, they're all terrorists.  And that's a recipe for disaster, and it's one that I reject.

So where we are now is that we are having technical conversations about de-confliction so that we're not seeing U.S. and American firefights in the air.  But beyond that, we're very clear in sticking to our belief and our policy that the problem here is Assad and the brutality that he has inflicted on the Syrian people, and that it has to stop.  And in order for it to stop, we're prepared to work with all the parties concerned.  But we are not going to cooperate with a Russian campaign to simply try to destroy anybody who is disgusted and fed up with Mr. Assad's behavior.

Keep in mind also, from a practical perspective, the moderate opposition in Syria is one that if we're ever going to have to have a political transition, we need.  And the Russian policy is driving those folks underground or creating a situation in which they are de-capacitated, and it's only strengthening ISIL.  And that's not good for anybody.

In terms of our support of opposition groups inside of Syria, I made very clear early on that the United States couldn't impose a military solution on Syria either, but that it was in our interest to make sure that we were engaged with moderate opposition inside of Syria because eventually Syria will fall, the Assad regime will fall, and we have to have somebody who we're working with that we can help pick up the pieces and stitch back together a cohesive, coherent country.  And so we will continue to support them.

The training-and-equip program was a specific initiative by the Defense Department to see if we could get some of that moderate opposition to focus attention on ISIL in the eastern portion of the country.  And I'm the first one to acknowledge it has not worked the way it was supposed to, Julie.  And I think that the Department of Defense would say the same thing.  And part of the reason, frankly, is because when we tried to get them to just focus on ISIL, the response we'd get back is, how can we focus on ISIL when every single day we're having barrel bombs and attacks from the regime?  And so it's been hard to get them to reprioritize, looking east, when they've got bombs coming at them from the west.

So what we're doing with the train-and-equip is looking at where we have had success -- for example, working with some of the Kurdish community in the east that pushed ISIL out -- seeing if we can build on that.  But what we're also going to continue to do is to have contacts with and work with opposition that, rightly, believes that in the absence of some change of government inside of Syria we're going to continue to see civil war, and that is going to turbocharge ISIL recruitment and jihadist recruitment, and we're going to continue to have problems.

Now, last point I just want to make about this -- because sometimes the conversation here in the Beltway differs from the conversation internationally.  Mr. Putin had to go into Syria not out of strength but out of weakness, because his client, Mr. Assad, was crumbling.  And it was insufficient for him simply to send them arms and money; now he's got to put in his own planes and his own pilots.  And the notion that he put forward a plan and that somehow the international community sees that as viable because there is a vacuum there -- I didn't see, after he made that speech in the United Nations, suddenly the 60-nation coalition that we have start lining up behind him.

Iran and Assad make up Mr. Putin's coalition at the moment. The rest of the world makes up ours.  So I don't think people are fooled by the current strategy.  It does not mean that we could not see Mr. Putin begin to recognize that it is in their interest to broker a political settlement.  And as I said in New York, we're prepared to work with the Russians and the Iranians, as well as our partners who are part of the anti-ISIL coalition to come up with that political transition.  And nobody pretends that it's going to be easy, but I think it is still possible.  And so we will maintain lines of communication.

But we are not going to be able to get those negotiations going if there is not a recognition that there's got to be a change in government.  We're not going to go back to the status quo ante.  And the kinds of airstrikes against moderate opposition that Russia is engaging in is going to be counterproductive.  It's going to move us farther away rather than towards the ultimate solution that we're all -- that we all should be looking for.

Q    (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Julie, throughout this process, I think people have constantly looked for an easy, low-cost answer -- whether it's we should have sent more rifles in early and somehow then everything would have been okay; or if I had taken that shot even after Assad offered to give up his chemical weapons, then immediately things would have folded, or the Assad regime would have folded, and we would have suddenly seen a peaceful Syria.

This is a hugely, difficult, complex problem.  And I would have hoped that we would have learned that from Afghanistan and Iraq, where we have devoted enormous time and effort and resources with the very best people and have given the Afghan people and the Iraqi people an opportunity for democracy.  But it's still hard, as we saw this week in Afghanistan.  That's not by virtue of a lack of effort on our part, or a lack of commitment.  We've still got 10,000 folks in Afghanistan.  We're still spending billions of dollar supporting that government, and it's still tough.

So when I make a decision about the level of military involvement that we're prepared to engage in, in Syria, I have to make a judgment based on, once we start something we've got to finish it, and we've got to do it well.  And do we, in fact, have the resources and the capacity to make a serious impact -- understanding that we've still got to go after ISIL in Iraq; we still have to support the training of an Iraqi military that is weaker than any of us perceived; that we still have business to do in Afghanistan.  And so I push -- and have consistently over the last four, five years sought out a wide range of opinions about steps that we can take potentially to move Syria in a better direction.

I am under no illusions about what an incredible humanitarian catastrophe this is, and the hardships that we're seeing, and the refugees that are traveling in very dangerous circumstances and now creating real political problems among our allies in Europe, and the heartbreaking images of children drowned trying to escape war, and the potential impact of such a destabilized country on our allies in the region.  But what we have learned over the last 10, 12, 13 years is that unless we can get the parties on the ground to agree to live together in some fashion, then no amount of U.S. military engagement will solve the problem.  And we will find ourselves either doing just a little bit and not making a difference, and losing credibility that way, or finding ourselves drawn in deeper and deeper into a situation that we can't sustain.

And when I hear people offering up half-baked ideas as if they are solutions, or trying to downplay the challenges involved in this situation -- what I'd like to see people ask is, specifically, precisely, what exactly would you do, and how would you fund it, and how would you sustain it?  And typically, what you get is a bunch of mumbo jumbo.

So these are hard challenges.  They are ones that we are going to continue to pursue.  The topline message that I want everybody to understand is we are going to continue to go after ISIL.  We are going to continue to reach out to a moderate opposition.  We reject Russia's theory that everybody opposed to Assad is a terrorist.  We think that is self-defeating.  It will get them into a quagmire.  It will be used as a further recruitment tool for foreign fighters.

We will work with the international community and our coalition to relieve the humanitarian pressure.  On refugees, we are working with the Turks and others to see what we can do along the border to make things safer for people.  But ultimately, we're going to have to find a way for a political transition if we're going to solve Syria.

Jon Karl.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    Back in July you said that the gun issue has been the most frustrating of your presidency, and we certainly heard that frustration from you last night.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    So in the last 15 months of your presidency, do you intend to do anything differently to get Congress to act or to do something about this gun violence problem?

And I have to get you to respond to something that Jeb Bush just said, and to be fair to Governor Bush I want to read it directly.  Asked about the drive to take action in light of what happened in Oregon, he said, "Look, stuff happens.  There's always a crisis.  And the impulse is always to do something, and it's not always the right thing to do."  How would you react to Governor Bush?

THE PRESIDENT:  I don't even think I have to react to that one.  (Laughter.)  I think the American people should hear that and make their own judgments, based on the fact that every couple of months, we have a mass shooting, and in terms of -- and they can decide whether they consider that "stuff happening".

In terms of what I can do, I've asked my team -- as I have in the past -- to scrub what kinds of authorities do we have to enforce the laws that we have in place more effectively to keep guns out of the hands of criminals.  Are there additional actions that we can take that might prevent even a handful of these tragic deaths from taking place?  But as I said last night, this will not change until the politics change and the behavior of elected officials changes.

And so the main thing I'm going to do is I'm going to talk about this on a regular basis, and I will politicize it because our inaction is a political decision that we are making.

The reason that Congress does not support even the modest gun safety laws that we proposed after Sandy Hook is not because the majority of the American people don't support it.  I mean, normally, politicians are responsive to the views of the electorate.  Here you've got the majority of the American people think it's the right thing to do.  Background checks, other common-sense steps that would maybe save some lives couldn't even get a full vote.  And why is that?  It's because of politics.  It's because interest groups fund campaigns, feed people fear. And in fairness, it's not just in the Republican Party -- although the Republican Party is just uniformly opposed to all gun safety laws.  And unless we change that political dynamic, we're not going to be able to make a big dent in this problem.

For example, you'll hear people talk about the problem is not guns, it's mental illness.  Well, if you talk to people who study this problem, it is true that the majority of these mass shooters are angry young men, but there are hundreds of millions of angry young men around the world -- tens of millions of angry young men.  Most of them don't shoot.  It doesn't help us just to identify -- and the majority of people who have mental illnesses are not shooters.  So we can't sort through and identify ahead of time who might take actions like this.  The only thing we can do is make sure that they can't have an entire arsenal when something snaps in them.

And if we're going to do something about that, the politics has to change.  The politics has to change.  And the people who are troubled by this have to be as intense and as organized and as adamant about this issue as folks on the other side who are absolutists and think that any gun safety measures are somehow an assault on freedom, or communistic -- or a plot by me to takeover and stay in power forever or something.  (Laughter.)  I mean, there are all kinds of crackpot conspiracy theories that float around there -- some of which, by the way, are ratified by elected officials in the other party on occasion.

So we've got to change the politics of this.  And that requires people to feel -- not just feel deeply -- because I get a lot of letters after this happens -- "do something!"  Well, okay, here's what you need to do.  You have to make sure that anybody who you are voting for is on the right side of this issue.  And if they're not, even if they're great on other stuff, for a couple of election cycles you've got to vote against them, and let them know precisely why you're voting against them.  And you just have to, for a while, be a single-issue voter because that's what is happening on the other side.

And that's going to take some time.  I mean, the NRA has had a good start.  They've been at this a long time, they've perfected what they do.  You've got to give them credit -- they're very effective, because they don't represent the majority of the American people but they know how to stir up fear; they know how to stir up their base; they know how to raise money; they know how to scare politicians; they know how to organize campaigns.  And the American people are going to have to match them in their sense of urgency if we're actually going to stop this.

Which isn't to say stopping all violence.  We're not going to stop all violence.  Violence exists around the world, sadly.  Part of original sin.  But our homicide rates are just a lot higher than other places -- that, by the way, have the same levels of violence.  It's just you can't kill as many people when you don't have easy access to these kinds of weapons.

And I'm deeply saddened about what happened yesterday.  But Arne is going back to Chicago -- let's not forget, this is happening every single day in forgotten neighborhoods around the country.  Every single day.  Kids are just running for their lives, trying to get to school.  Broderick, when we were down in New Orleans, sitting down with a group of young men, when we were talking about Katrina, and I've got two young men next to me, both of them had been shot multiple times.  They were barely 20.

So we got to make a decision.  If we think that's normal, then we have to own it.  I don't think it's normal.  I think it's abnormal.  I think we should change it.  But I can't do it by myself.

So the main thing I'm going to do, Jon, is talk about it.  And hope that over time I'm changing enough minds -- along with other leaders around the country -- that we start finally seeing some action.  I don't think it's going to happen overnight.

Cheryl Bolen.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  To go back to your opening remarks, you said that you won't sign another short-term CR.  But as you know, yesterday Secretary Lew announced that the government's borrowing authority would run out around November 5th.  Would you recommend negotiating an increase in the debt ceiling as part of these budget negotiations on spending caps?  And also does the Speaker's race complicate these negotiations?

THE PRESIDENT:  I'm sure the Speaker's race complicates these negotiations.  (Laughter.)  That was a rhetorical question. (Laughter.)  It will complicate the negotiations.  But when it comes to the debt ceiling, we're not going back there.

Maybe it's been a while, so let me just refresh everybody's memory.  Raising the debt ceiling does not authorize us to spend more, it simply authorizes us to pay the bills that we have already incurred.  It is the way for the United States to maintain its good credit rating -- the full faith and credit of the United States.

Historically, we do not mess with it.  If it gets messed with, it would have profound implications for the global economy and could put our financial system in the kind of tailspin that we saw back in 2007-2008.  It's just a bad thing to do.  So we're not going to negotiate on that.  It has to get done in the next five weeks.  So even though the continuing resolution to keep the government open lasts for 10 weeks, we have to get the debt ceiling raised in five.  You've got a shorter timetable to get that done.

But here's the bottom line:  Mitch McConnell, John Boehner, myself, Nancy Pelosi, Harry Reid -- we've all spoken and talked about trying to negotiate a budget agreement.  And, yes, Speaker Boehner's decision to step down complicates it.  But I do think that there is still a path for us to come up with a reasonable agreement that raises the spending caps above sequester to make sure that we can properly finance both our defense and nondefense needs, that maintains a prudent control of our deficits, and that we can do that in short order.  It's not that complicated.  The math is the math.

And what I've encouraged is that we get started on that work immediately, and we push through over the next several weeks -- and try to leave out extraneous issues that may prevent us from getting a budget agreement.

I know, for example, that there are many Republicans who are exercised about Planned Parenthood.  And I deeply disagree with them on that issue, and I think that it's mischaracterized what Planned Parenthood does.  But I understand that they feel strongly about it, and I respect that.  But you can't have an issue like that potentially wreck the entire U.S. economy -- any more than I should hold the entire budget hostage to my desire to do something about gun violence.  I feel just as strongly about that and I think I've got better evidence for it.  But the notion that I would threaten the Republicans that unless they passed gun safety measures that would stop mass shootings I'm going to shut down the government and not sign an increase in the debt ceiling would be irresponsible of me.  And the American people, rightly, would reject that.

Well, same is true for them.  There are some fights that we fight individually.  They want to defund Planned Parenthood, there's a way to do it.  Pass a law, override my veto.  That's true across a whole bunch of issues that they disagree with me on, and that's how democracy works.  I got no problem with that.

But you have to govern.  And I'm hoping that the next Speaker understands that the problem Speaker Boehner had or Mitch McConnell had in not dismantling Obamacare, or not eliminating the Department of Education, or not deporting every immigrant in this country was not because Speaker Boehner or Mitch McConnell didn't care about conservative principles.  It had to do with the fact that they can't do it in our system of government, which requires compromise.  Just like I can't do everything I want in passing an immigration bill, or passing a gun safety bill.  And that doesn't mean, then, I throw a tantrum and try to wreck the economy, and put hardworking Americans who are just now able to dig themselves out of a massive recession, put them in harm's way.  Wrong thing to do.

Peter Alexander.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  You addressed -- I want to follow up on Jon's questions about the issue that's obviously deeply personal and moving to you -- that is the gun issue.  Apart from Congress's inaction, apart from the desire for new laws and, beyond that, apart from the gun lobby, as you noted, the pattern is that these perpetrators are angry, aggrieved, oftentimes mentally ill young men.  Is there something that you can do with the bully pulpit, with your moral authority, with your remaining time in office to help reach these individuals who believe that gun violence is the way out?

THE PRESIDENT:  No.  I think I can continue to speak to the American people as a whole and hopefully model for them basic social norms about rejecting violence, and cooperation and caring for other people.  But there are a lot of young men out there.  And having been one myself once, I can tell you that us being able to identify or pinpoint who might have problems is extraordinarily difficult.

So I think we, as a culture, should continuously think about how we can nurture our kids, protect our kids, talk to them about conflict resolution, discourage violence.  And I think there are poor communities where, rather than mass shootings, you're seeing just normal interactions that used to be settled by a fistfight settled with guns where maybe intervention programs and mentorship and things like that can work.  That's the kind of thing that we're trying to encourage through My Brother's Keeper.

But when it comes to reaching every disaffected young man, 99 percent of -- or 99.9 percent of whom will hopefully grow out of it -- I don't think that there's a silver bullet there.  The way we are going to solve this problem is that when they act out, when they are disturbed, when that particular individual has a problem, that they can't easily access weapons that can perpetrate mass violence on a lot of people.

Because that's what other countries do.  Again, I want to emphasize this.  There's no showing that somehow we are inherently more violent than any other advanced nation, or that young men are inherently more violent in our nation than they are in other nations.  I will say young men inherently are more violent than the rest of the population, but there's no sense that somehow this is -- it's something in the American character that is creating this.  Levels of violence are on par between the United States and other advanced countries.  What is different is homicide rates and gun violence rates and mass shooting rates.  So it's not that the behavior or the impulses are necessarily different as much as it is that they have access to more powerful weapons.

Julia Edwards.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  You just said that you reject President Putin's approach to Syria and his attacks on moderate opposition forces.  You said it was a recipe for disaster.  But what are you willing to do to stop President Putin and protect moderate opposition fighters?  Would you consider imposing sanctions against Russia?  Would you go so far as to equip moderate rebels with anti-aircraft weapons to protect them from Russian air attacks?  And how do you respond to critics who say Putin is outsmarting you, that he took a measure of you in Ukraine and he felt he could get away with it?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, I've heard it all before.  (Laughter.) I've got to say I'm always struck by the degree to which not just critics but I think people buy this narrative.

Let's think about this.  So when I came into office seven and a half years ago, America had precipitated the worst financial crisis in history, dragged the entire world into a massive recession.  We were involved in two wars with almost no coalition support.  U.S. -- world opinion about the United States was at a nadir -- we were just barely above Russia at that time, and I think potentially slightly below China's.  And we were shedding 800,000 jobs a month, and so on and so forth.

And today, we're the strongest large advanced economy in the world -- probably one of the few bright spots in the world economy.  Our approval ratings have gone up.  We are more active on more international issues and forge international responses to everything from Ebola to countering ISIL.

Meanwhile, Mr. Putin comes into office at a time when the economy had been growing and they were trying to pivot to a more diversified economy, and as a consequence of these brilliant moves, their economy is contracting 4 percent this year.  They are isolated in the world community, subject to sanctions that are not just applied by us but by what used to be some of their closest trading partners.  Their main allies in the Middle East were Libya and Syria -- Mr. Gaddafi and Mr. Assad -- and those countries are falling apart.  And he's now just had to send in troops and aircraft in order to prop up this regime, at the risk of alienating the entire Sunni world.

So what was the question again?  (Laughter.)

No, but I think it's really interesting to understand.  Russia is not stronger as a consequence of what they've been doing.  They get attention.  The sanctions against Ukraine are still in place.  And what I've consistently offered -- from a position of strength, because the United States is not subject to sanctions and we're not contracting 4 percent a year -- what I've offered is a pathway whereby they can get back onto a path of growth and do right by their people.

So Mr. Putin's actions have been successful only insofar as it's boosted his poll ratings inside of Russia -- which may be why the beltway is so impressed, because that tends to be the measure of success.  Of course, it's easier to do when you've got a state-controlled media.

But this is not a smart, strategic move on Russia's part.  And what Russia has now done is not only committed its own troops into a situation in which the overwhelming majority of the Syrian population sees it now as an enemy, but the Sunni population throughout the Middle East is going to see it as a supporter, an endorser, of those barrel bombs landing on kids -- at a time when Russia has a significant Muslim population inside of its own borders that it needs to worry about.

So I want Russia to be successful.  This is not a contest between the United States and Russia.  It is in our interest for Russia to be a responsible, effective actor on the international stage that can share burdens with us, along with China, along with Europe, along with Japan, along with other countries -- because the problems we have are big.  So I'm hopeful that Mr. Putin, having made this doubling-down of the support he has provided to Mr. Assad, recognizes that this is not going to be a good long-term strategy and that he works instead to bring about a political settlement.

Just as I hope that they can resolve the issues with Ukraine in a way that recognizes Russian equities but upholds the basic principle of sovereignty and independence that the Ukrainian people should enjoy like everybody else.  But until that time, we're going to continue to have tensions and we're going to continue to have differences.

But we're not going to make Syria into a proxy war between the United States and Russia.  That would be bad strategy on our part.  This is a battle between Russia, Iran, and Assad against the overwhelming majority of the Syrian people.  Our battle is with ISIL, and our battle is with the entire international community to resolve the conflict in a way that can end the bloodshed and end the refugee crisis, and allow people to be at home, work, grow food, shelter their children, send those kids to school.  That's the side we're on.

This is not some superpower chessboard contest.  And anybody who frames it in that way isn't paying very close attention to what's been happening on the chessboard.

All right, last question.  Major Garrett.

Q    Mr. President, good to see you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Good to see you.

Q    And for the children there, I promise I won't take too long.  So you've been very patient.

THE PRESIDENT:  I've been boring them to death, I guarantee it.  (Laughter.)  But there have been times where I've snagged rebounds for Ryan when he is shooting three-pointers so he has got to put up with this.  (Laughter.)

Q    Understood.  Mr. President, I wonder if you could tell the country to what degree you were changed or moved by what you discussed in private with Pope Francis?  What do you think his visit might have meant for the country long term?  And for Democrats who might already be wondering, is it too late for Joe Biden to decide whether or not to run for President?  And lastly, just to clarify, to what degree did Hillary Clinton's endorsement just yesterday of a no-fly zone put her in a category of embracing a half-baked answer on Syria that borders on mumbo jumbo?

THE PRESIDENT:  On the latter issue, on the last question that you asked, Hillary Clinton is not half-baked in terms of her approach to these problems.  She was obviously my Secretary of State.  But I also think that there's a difference between running for President and being President, and the decisions that are being made and the discussions that I'm having with the Joint Chiefs become much more specific and require, I think, a different kind of judgment.  And that's what I'll continue to apply as long as I'm here.  And if and when she's President, then she'll make those judgments.  And she's been there enough that she knows that these are tough calls but that --

Q    -- that she should know better?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, that's not what I said.  That's perhaps what you said.  What I'm saying is, is that we all want to try to relieve the suffering in Syria, but my job is to make sure that whatever we do we are doing in a way that serves the national security interests of the American people; that doesn't lead to us getting into things that we can't get out of or that we cannot do effectively; and as much as possible, that we're working with international partners.

And we're going to continue to explore things that we can do to protect people and to deal with the humanitarian situation there, and to provide a space in which we can bring about the kind of political transition that's going to be required to solve the problem.  And I think Hillary Clinton would be the first to say that when you're sitting in the seat that I'm sitting in, in the Situation Room, things look a little bit different -- because she's been right there next to me.

I love Joe Biden, and he's got his own decisions to make, and I'll leave it at that.  And in the meantime, he's doing a great job as Vice President and has been really helpful on a whole bunch of issues.

Pope Francis I love.  He is a good man with a warm heart and a big moral imagination.  And I think he had such an impact in his visit here -- as he has had around the world -- because he cares so deeply about the least of these, and in that sensea expresses what I consider to be, as a Christian, the essence of Christianity.  And he's got a good sense of humor.  (Laughter.)  Well, I can't share all his jokes.  They were all clean.  (Laughter.)

And as I said in the introduction in the South Lawn when he appeared here at the White House, I think it's really useful that he makes us uncomfortable in his gentle way; that he's constantly prodding people's consciences and asking everybody all across the political spectrum what more you can do to be kind, and to be helpful, and to love, and to sacrifice, and to serve.  And in that sense, I don't think he's somebody where we should be applying the typical American political measures -- liberal and conservative, and left and right -- I think he is speaking to all of our consciences, and we all have to then search ourselves to see if there are ways that we can do better.

Q    (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  It did.  I think that when I spend time with somebody like the Pontiff -- and there are other individuals, some of whom are famous, some of whom are not, but who are good people and deeply moral -- then it makes me want to be better, makes me want to do better.  And those people are great gifts to the world.  And sometimes they're just a teacher in a classroom. And sometimes they're your neighbor.  And sometimes they're your mom, or your wife.  Sometimes they're your kids.  But they can encourage you to be better.  That's what we're all trying to do.

And that's part of the wonderful thing about Pope Francis, is the humility that he brings to do this.  His rejection of the absolutism that says I'm 100 percent right and you're 100 percent wrong; but rather, we are all sinners and we are all children of God.  That's a pretty good starting point for being better.

All right.  Thank you, guys, for your patience.  You can now go home.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Please be seated, everybody.  Good afternoon.

Arne Duncan is one of my longest-serving Cabinet Secretaries, and he's been a friend for a lot longer than that.  So it's with some regret and sorrow that I've accepted his decision to return to our hometown of Chicago.  After more than six years of living in Washington, Arne's wonderful wife, Karen, and their excellent kids, Claire and Ryan -- who are also buddies of mine -- wanted to move back home.  And that's meant in the interim a lot of time apart.

So I'll be honest -- I pushed Arne to stay.  Sorry, guys.  But I also know from personal experience how hard it is to be away from your family on a sustained basis.  So while I will miss Arne deeply, he's more than earned the right to return home.

Take a look at what Arne has accomplished over the last six and a half years.  He's one of the longest-serving Secretaries of Education in our history -- and one of the more consequential.  In just a few years, Arne and his team have delivered some incredible results at every stage of the educational experience. More than 30 states have upped their investment in early childhood education.  Nearly every state in America has raised standards for teaching and learning, and expectations for what our kids can learn, and our high school graduation rate is at an all-time high.  We've helped millions more families afford college, and more Americans are graduating from college than ever before.  And that's just scratching the surface.

Arne has done more to bring our educational system -- sometimes kicking and screaming -- into the 21st century than anybody else.  America is going to be better off for what he has done.  It's going to be more competitive and more prosperous.  It is going to be more equal and more upwardly mobile.  It's a record that I truly believe no other Education Secretary can match.  Arne bleeds this stuff.  He cares so much about our kids. And he's been so passionate about this work.  And everybody who interacts with him, including people who disagree with him on some issues, never questions the genuineness and heart that he has brought to this job.

So I couldn't be prouder of him.  And, for good measure, Arne also holds the record for most points scored in an NBA All-Star game.  (Applause.)  And he is my favorite partner in pickup basketball -- (laughter) -- the smartest player I know -- even though he's very slow -- (laughter) -- and has no hops.  (Laughter.)  He knows it's true.  I will say, watching Ryan, by the way, that the son will soon be surpassing the father because this young man has got game.

Now, keep in mind, none of this change has been easy, and we still have a long way to go.  One of the things about education is that it doesn't deliver results tomorrow or the next day; this is a decade-long or longer proposition.   We plant seeds now; we make changes now; and we watch each successive class benefit from these reforms.  And it goes in fits and starts, and we have a decentralized system -- that's how our education tradition evolved.  So it's not easy and it's not quick, but we are making progress.  And we're not going to stop in these last 15 months.

And that's why it's so important and why I think we're very lucky that, even as Arne steps down, we've got an exceptionally talented educator to step in -- and that is Dr. John King.

John is already on Arne's leadership team.  He's been an educator all his life -- a teacher, a principal, a leader of schools, the New York State's education chief.  He's the right man to lead the department.  He shares our commitment to preparing every child for success in a more innovative and competitive world.  He's got a great team already at the Department of Education of which I am very, very proud.  His family is equally cool and good-looking.  (Laughter.)  And he has equally exceptional children.  And I know that, together, we're going to continue to be able to do great things on behalf of all our kids.

So, Arne and John, I want to wish both of you a hardy congratulations and good luck.

Now I'm going to let them say a few words, and then I'm just going to make a few remarks before I take some questions from the press.

We'll start with Arne.

SECRETARY DUNCAN:  I've cried more today than I have in a while, so I'll try not to get up here and cry.

I'll start with the President.  And when he asked us to come to D.C. and work with him, that was about a one-minute conversation with my wife.  And it wasn't that we wanted to leave Chicago; it wasn't that I necessarily wanted to be the Education Secretary -- I just wanted to be on his team and believed so much in what he was about and what he stood for.

And I have to say, seven and a half years later, my admiration is only greater.  And it's pretty remarkable -- it's important for the folks to know, that every hard decision, his only question was, what's the right thing to do for kids, and challenging us and our team to fight for kids every single day.  And often, that was a hard political decision, and that was never a factor.  His passion and his commitment has been absolutely extraordinary.  For me, it's not the political leadership; it's not the educational leadership; it's the moral leadership.

And I just can't tell you, Mr. President, personally, what an unbelievable honor it was just to spend some time.

And for those -- every day you see -- for folks who watched him last night talking about the horrendous massacre, gun massacre in Oregon, and how preventable these things are, we need that moral leadership.  And please keep that fight

To our team, the team you have at the White House -- Cecilia and Denis and Valerie and others -- it's been extraordinary to work with DPC.  I don't say this lightly -- I think our team at the Department of Education is stronger than it's ever been.  You never know over seven, eight years, how those teams go, and do you have the B team towards the end -- well, I think we have the A team and a combination of being able to work with the White House -- Shaun and Sylvia and so many folks are here -- Anthony. We have the team in place.  I'm just extraordinarily hopeful and confident about what they can do together.

Emma and Ted, and the rest of the crew -- you said a little bit about John -- and folks know, for all of us, this work is very, very personal.  For the President, it's very personal.  For me it's very personal.  John was one of those kids that probably shouldn't be in a room like this, if you sort of look at the stereotypes.  And not the easiest time growing up -- he'll tell you more about it -- he lost both his parents at a pretty early age; went to live with his brother.  That wasn't very easy either.  But he had an amazing teacher who saw something in him, who kept him going.  And today, he gets to stand here with the President.

And so many times, I think we, as a society, write off kids that look like John and come from places like John.  And to see what he can accomplish -- I think that's what drives all of us.  We know there are so many other kids out there we can reach.

And while I'm deeply, deeply sad to be leaving, I'm extraordinarily happy and thankful and proud that John is going to carry on this work with the team.  So I want to thank everybody for their hard work.

I quickly want to -- try not to get emotional here -- but thank my parents, as well.  My dad was a lifelong educator at the University of Chicago, taught throughout his life.  My mother started an inner-city tutoring program before we were born, and raised all of us as a part of that program.  And that changed our lives.  And all our life, we saw what kids could do when they were given a chance.  And that's why we do this work today.  And to be able to see what she did at one little corner at 46th and Greenwood, and to now have a chance over the past six and a half years to try and have an impact around the nation, because this man gave us a chance -- for my family, I can't tell you how much it means to us.

And then, finally, just to my family.  I love this work.  I love this team.  I love the President.  I love the chance to serve.  The only thing I love more is you guys.  And I can't wait to come home and see a couple more track meets and maybe get to coach Ryan a little bit, and maybe have a few more dinners, and maybe go to a movie someday -- that would be pretty amazing.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Wow!  All right!

SECRETARY DUNCAN:  It's been too long.  And so it's been an amazing, amazing journey and I feel so proud and so lucky to have been a part of this team.  And, Mr. President, thanks for creating the climate in which all of us here -- all of us here --could have the impact we did.  And we can never repay the debt of gratitude we owe you for your leadership and your courage.  So thank you so much.

And I want to turn it over to John.  (Applause.)


DR. KING:  Thank you, Arne, for very kind words.  Thank you, Mr. President, for the opportunity to serve and for the faith that you've placed in me and the team that we have at the department.

I'm deeply honored by the chance to serve and also deeply humbled by following in Arne's footsteps.  Arne is an extraordinary leader who I have watched demonstrate tremendous courage in fighting for kids and fighting for what's best for kids; but also he's been willing to listen -- to listen to folks and to make adjustments, and to make sure that everything we do every day is towards the goal of greater equity.

Mr. President, you and Arne and our team at the department have laid out an ambitious agenda -- from strengthening early childhood education and expanding access to early childhood, to raising standards for teaching and learning in K through 12, to ensuring that more Americans have access to high-quality higher education, to ensuring that we support our teachers and that we invest in our teachers and provide the best preparation and support and leadership opportunities for them.  It's an incredible agenda, and I'm proud to be able to carry it forward with the amazing team that we have at the department.

Earlier this week, Arne gave a speech at the National Press Club, and in that speech, Arne said education can be the difference between life and death.  And I know that's true because it was for me.  I grew up in Brooklyn.  I lost my mom when I was eight; my dad when I was 12.  My dad was very sick before he passed.  I moved around between family members and schools.  But teachers, New York City public school teachers, are the reason that I am alive.  They are the reason that I became a teacher.  They are the reason I am standing here today.  Those teachers created amazing educational experiences, but also gave me hope -- hope about what is possible, what could be possible for me in life.

I know schools can't do it alone.  There's work we have to do on economic development and housing and health care.  But I know that my parents -- who spent their lives as New York City public school educators -- believed that school was at the heart of our promise of equality of opportunity for all Americans.  That's what they believed.  That's what the President believes.  That's what Arne believes.  And that's what I feel very privileged to be able to work on with this amazing team we have at the department.

Every child in the United States, every college student, every disconnected youth, every working parent who just wants a few more credits in order to improve their salary and position at their job -- everyone deserves the kind of opportunity that I had to have a great education.  Every child deserves the kind of opportunity that my beautiful daughters, Amina and Mireya, have to have a great education, the kind of education their grandparents worked to provide.

I'm so grateful to my very supportive wife, Melissa.  So grateful to the Secretary for the opportunity he gave me to join his team, and incredibly grateful to the President for the opportunity to work with a wonderful group of people at the Education Department to try to expand opportunity.

Thank you.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

Two good men, doing really important work.  So I'm lucky to have them, both as colleagues and as friends, and I'm looking forward to seeing even more work done in the next few months.

We've got some other business to attend to.  So all of you who are here to celebrate Arne and John, you're lucky enough now to have to sit through -- (laughter) -- a little bit of a press conference with me.  So make yourselves comfortable.  (Laughter.) I warned the kids ahead of time.  I said, try not to look completely bored.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  There's been another mass shooting in America -- this time, in a community college in Oregon.

That means there are more American families -- moms, dads, children -- whose lives have been changed forever.  That means there's another community stunned with grief, and communities across the country forced to relieve their own anguish, and parents across the country who are scared because they know it might have been their families or their children.

I've been to Roseburg, Oregon.  There are really good people there.  I want to thank all the first responders whose bravery likely saved some lives today.  Federal law enforcement has been on the scene in a supporting role, and we've offered to stay and help as much as Roseburg needs, for as long as they need.

In the coming days, we'll learn about the victims -- young men and women who were studying and learning and working hard, their eyes set on the future, their dreams on what they could make of their lives.  And America will wrap everyone who's grieving with our prayers and our love.

But as I said just a few months ago, and I said a few months before that, and I said each time we see one of these mass shootings, our thoughts and prayers are not enough.  It's not enough.  It does not capture the heartache and grief and anger that we should feel.  And it does nothing to prevent this carnage from being inflicted someplace else in America -- next week, or a couple of months from now.

We don't yet know why this individual did what he did.  And it's fair to say that anybody who does this has a sickness in their minds, regardless of what they think their motivations may be.  But we are not the only country on Earth that has people with mental illnesses or want to do harm to other people.  We are the only advanced country on Earth that sees these kinds of mass shootings every few months.

Earlier this year, I answered a question in an interview by saying, "The United States of America is the one advanced nation on Earth in which we do not have sufficient common-sense gun-safety laws -- even in the face of repeated mass killings."  And later that day, there was a mass shooting at a movie theater in Lafayette, Louisiana.  That day!  Somehow this has become routine.  The reporting is routine.  My response here at this podium ends up being routine.  The conversation in the aftermath of it.  We've become numb to this.

We talked about this after Columbine and Blacksburg, after Tucson, after Newtown, after Aurora, after Charleston.  It cannot be this easy for somebody who wants to inflict harm on other people to get his or her hands on a gun.

And what's become routine, of course, is the response of those who oppose any kind of common-sense gun legislation.  Right now, I can imagine the press releases being cranked out:  We need more guns, they'll argue.  Fewer gun safety laws.

Does anybody really believe that?  There are scores of responsible gun owners in this country --they know that's not true.  We know because of the polling that says the majority of Americans understand we should be changing these laws -- including the majority of responsible, law-abiding gun owners.

There is a gun for roughly every man, woman, and child in America.  So how can you, with a straight face, make the argument that more guns will make us safer?  We know that states with the most gun laws tend to have the fewest gun deaths.  So the notion that gun laws don't work, or just will make it harder for law-abiding citizens and criminals will still get their guns is not borne out by the evidence.

We know that other countries, in response to one mass shooting, have been able to craft laws that almost eliminate mass shootings.  Friends of ours, allies of ours -- Great Britain, Australia, countries like ours.  So we know there are ways to prevent it.

And, of course, what's also routine is that somebody, somewhere will comment and say, Obama politicized this issue.  Well, this is something we should politicize.  It is relevant to our common life together, to the body politic.  I would ask news organizations -- because I won't put these facts forward -- have news organizations tally up the number of Americans who've been killed through terrorist attacks over the last decade and the number of Americans who've been killed by gun violence, and post those side-by-side on your news reports.  This won't be information coming from me; it will be coming from you.  We spend over a trillion dollars, and pass countless laws, and devote entire agencies to preventing terrorist attacks on our soil, and rightfully so.  And yet, we have a Congress that explicitly blocks us from even collecting data on how we could potentially reduce gun deaths.  How can that be?

This is a political choice that we make to allow this to happen every few months in America.  We collectively are answerable to those families who lose their loved ones because of our inaction.  When Americans are killed in mine disasters, we work to make mines safer.  When Americans are killed in floods and hurricanes, we make communities safer.  When roads are unsafe, we fix them to reduce auto fatalities.  We have seatbelt laws because we know it saves lives.  So the notion that gun violence is somehow different, that our freedom and our Constitution prohibits any modest regulation of how we use a deadly weapon, when there are law-abiding gun owners all across the country who could hunt and protect their families and do everything they do under such regulations doesn't make sense.

So, tonight, as those of us who are lucky enough to hug our kids a little closer are thinking about the families who aren't so fortunate, I'd ask the American people to think about how they can get our government to change these laws, and to save lives, and to let young people grow up.  And that will require a change of politics on this issue.  And it will require that the American people, individually, whether you are a Democrat or a Republican or an independent, when you decide to vote for somebody, are making a determination as to whether this cause of continuing death for innocent people should be a relevant factor in your decision.  If you think this is a problem, then you should expect your elected officials to reflect your views.

And I would particularly ask America's gun owners -- who are using those guns properly, safely, to hunt, for sport, for protecting their families -- to think about whether your views are properly being represented by the organization that suggests it's speaking for you.

And each time this happens I'm going to bring this up.  Each time this happens I am going to say that we can actually do something about it, but we're going to have to change our laws.  And this is not something I can do by myself.  I've got to have a Congress and I've got to have state legislatures and governors who are willing to work with me on this.

I hope and pray that I don't have to come out again during my tenure as President to offer my condolences to families in these circumstances.  But based on my experience as President, I can't guarantee that.  And that's terrible to say.  And it can change.

May God bless the memories of those who were killed today.  May He bring comfort to their families, and courage to the injured as they fight their way back.  And may He give us the strength to come together and find the courage to change.

Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:   Thank you so much.  Everybody have a seat.  Well, welcome to the White House.  I invited all of you here because if there's one thing I've learned, it's that you've got to be nice to state legislators.  (Laughter.)  You never know when one of them might end up being President.  (Laughter.)  So you want to treat them with respect.

It is great to see all of you.  I hope that Jerry has been treating you and our team have been treating you reasonably well.  (Applause.)  I am partial to state legislators -- particularly, by the way, senators.  I'm sorry, House members.  (Laughter and applause.)  I'm just saying we tend to be a little more sensible, at least at the state levels -- I don't know about the federal.  (Laughter.)

I see my friend Jim from Illinois back here -- Jim Clayborne.  And he and I served together, and he is still doing a great job.  My first campaign for the State Senate was nearly 20 years ago.  I had to print my own fliers at Kinko's.  (Laughter.)    Hardly anybody could pronounce my name.  We had to go door to door -- Michelle and me and a handful of volunteers just to get enough petitions to get on the ballot.  And just about everybody who I talked to -- when they did bother talking to me, because there were a number of times where people didn't answer the door or figured I was selling something or preaching something.  If they did answer the door and heard me speak for a while, they'd say, well, you seem like a nice young man -- why would you want to go into something dirty and nasty like politics?  (Laughter.)  And I'm sure some of you have heard that not just from strangers, but from your family members.

But what drove me to run for office, and what I'm sure drove many of you, is the conviction that politics can, in fact, be a noble profession; that you can, in fact, help to shape and create more opportunity in communities and districts and states and in our nation.  And the more time I spent in my community, the more convinced I was that although change happens from the bottom up -- and it is critical for communities to embrace nongovernmental organizations and community organizations and philanthropies and faith communities in trying to make sure that our schools are working and that our streets are safe and that people have jobs and opportunity -- ultimately, we also need to have a government that is an effective partner, that is not there just to try to stay in power or score cheap political points or get on the nightly news, but elected representatives that are genuinely trying to move the ball forward and try to bring our country together rather than divide it.

And that ideal -- the belief that people who love this country can change it -– is why I ran for this office eight years ago.  The financial crisis hadn't happened yet, and it turned out that that would make our job a lot harder.  But when you look back on these last seven years, we've made enormous progress.  (Applause.)

Now, let's face it.  You're not going to hear that progress acknowledged from the folks on the other side who are running for this office at the moment, and I understand that.  That's the nature of politics.  But somehow they've invented a reality that everything was terrific back in 2007, 2008 -– when the unemployment and the uninsured rate were skyrocketing, and when our economy was shedding hundreds of thousands of jobs every month, and we were mired in two wars, and hopelessly addicted to foreign oil, and bin Laden was still plotting.  Apparently those were the good old days before I came in and messed things up.  (Laughter.)

But there is this pesky thing called facts.  And here are the facts.  When I took office, the unemployment rate was on its way to 10 percent.  Today, it is at 5.1 percent.  (Applause.)  When I took office, we were losing up to 800,000 jobs a month.  Today, our businesses have created jobs for a record 66 months in a row –- more than *3 million [13 million] overall.  There are more job openings right now, in fact, than any time in our history.

When I took office, more than *15,000 Americans [15 percent of Americans] were uninsured.  Today, only 9.2 percent are uninsured.  And if we can get a few more states to expand Medicaid then even fewer will be uninsured.  (Applause.)

So for the first time on record, more than 90 percent of Americans have health insurance.  And for the first time, insurance companies can't discriminate against you because of a preexisting condition, which is helping all of us.  And by the way, despite the predictions, we've done all this and cut the deficit by two-thirds since I took office.  (Applause.)

When I took office, we were hopelessly addicted to foreign oil.  Today, we've cut our oil imports by more than half.  We've tripled the power that we generate from wind.  We generate 20 times more solar energy than we did when I came into office.  And that has proven to be a steady source of good jobs that can't be outsourced.

Our reading scores are up.  Our high school graduation rates are up.  Our college attendance is up.  There are almost no economic indicators that don't show we have made enormous progress during the course of these last seven years, and we've done it in partnership with so many of you and so many state governments around the country.

I'm going to hold up my record up against anybody.  Our policy prescriptions have been the right ones.  We are on the right side of these debates that are taking place right now.  And those things that are not yet done, aren't done because we got folks on the other side that are intent on saying no -- even when they know it's the right thing to do; even when it's -- originally was their idea.

On issue after issue, the American people agree.  The majority of Americans agree we should raise the minimum wage.  A majority of Americans agree we should institute paid family leave and sick days for our workers.  One recent poll, run by a Republican pollster, showed that a majority of Republican voters think that climate change is caused by human activity and that their elected officials should do something about it.  The only thing that makes climate change "political" is that not one -- not a single one of the top 10 candidates for President on the other side agree with these Republican voters -- unique among conservative parties worldwide.

The point is, Americans are not actually as divided as our politics or sometimes our media would suggest on particular issues.  We sort ourselves out partly because we're watching different things and reading different things.  But when you actually ask people their opinions on issues, there is a convergence there.  There's a path for us to act in a unified way.  But it requires elected officials to be serious about getting the job done, as opposed to winning the next election.  And we are ready to build on that progress.  We're ready to build on what works.  And our policies are the ones that work.

So part of our task is to make sure that both sides of the aisle at every level of government get the message that people are looking for us to actually do what makes sense and what the evidence and facts show are going to help working families.  And the good news is that it looks like the Republicans will just barely avoid shutting down the government for the second time in two years.  That's a somewhat low bar, but we should celebrate where we can.  (Laughter.)  The bad news is that it looks like Republicans will just barely avoid shutting down the government again for the second time in two years.  Instead of manufacturing new crises, Congress should be investing in the things that help our economy grow.

Now, given that, at least for the next year, year and a half, there's not going to be the kind of action on a wide range of issues that we'd like to see coming out of Capitol Hill, that puts more of a burden -- but also a great opportunity -- on state legislatures all across the country.  Because you can act when Washington won't.

The Republican-led Congress hasn't raised America's minimum wage, but 17 states did it on their own, and that boosted wages for 7 million workers.  So you are to be congratulated for that.  That's your work.  (Applause.)  Congress hasn't answered my call to provide our workers with paid sick days and paid family leave, but four states have now taken action on their own, including Oregon this year.  So congratulations, Oregon.  We're proud of you.  (Applause.)   Congress has not yet taken up my plan to bring down the cost of community college to zero for responsible students, but this year, two of your states took action to make sure that every hardworking young person can afford the new skills that they need to get a good job.

So over the last few years, states likes yours have gotten a lot done.  And I hope you're going to head back home ready to get even more done -- whether it's some of the issues I already mentioned, or expanding pre-K, or modernizing licensing laws to help workers and our veterans fill those jobs, or putting into place some limits on the amount of carbon pollution that power plants can generate and dump into our air -- we've got to keep moving forward.  And we've got to keep measuring success not just by winning elections -- although I do want us to do a little more work and pay a little more attention to state and legislative elections and gubernatorial elections and not just focus on national politics, because that's where a lot of decisions get made -- but I want us most importantly, to be focusing on how we're helping people in their own lives every single day.

At its worst, politics can be a dirty business.  It can be a tool for those with wealth and power to rig the system so that they can keep that wealth and power.  It can be a place where elected officials shy away from tough issues because they're not interested in stirring up controversy that might cost them an election.  But that makes it all the more important that we've got folks like you who believe in practicing politics at its best.

So when you talk to principled, passionate people who want to run for office for the right reasons but wonder if it's really worth it, you can tell them that the President of the United States says absolutely.  It is absolutely worth it.  We haven't won every fight.  We've got a lot more work to do.  But all across America, there are people who have jobs today that didn't have them because of the work that we did.  There are people who have health insurance today who didn't have it before because of the work that we did.  There are students who are going to college for the first time because we've made that possible.  There are veterans who served tour after tour who are now home with their families and are getting help that they have not only earned but that will help make our country stronger.

So that's what change looks like.  And that's why the right policies are important.  And that's what public service is about.  So I want to thank all of you for the outstanding work that you are doing to keep your communities, your states on the right track.  When you get frustrated, don't lose heart, because we're counting on you and, more importantly, the families in your districts and in your states are counting on you.  And I think their faith is well-placed.

Thank you very much, everybody.  (Applause.)

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, heads of state and government.  Last year, here at the United Nations, I called on the world to unite against the evil that is ISIL, or Daesh, and to eradicate the scourge of violent extremism.  And I challenged countries to return to the General Assembly this year with concrete steps that we can take together.

I want to thank everyone who is here today, including my fellow leaders, for answering this call.  We are joined by representatives from more than 100 nations, more than 20 multilateral institutions, some 120 civil society groups from around the world, and partners from the private sector.  I believe what we have here today is the emergence of a global movement that is united by the mission of degrading and ultimately destroying ISIL.

Together, we're pursuing a comprehensive strategy that is informed by our success over many years in crippling the al Qaeda core in the tribal regions of Afghanistan and Pakistan.  And we are harnessing all of our tools -- military, intelligence, economic, development and the strength of our communities.

Now, I have repeatedly said that our approach will take time.  This is not an easy task.  We have ISIL taking root in areas that already are suffering from failed governance, in some cases; in some cases, civil war or sectarian strife.  And as a consequence of the vacuum that exists in many of these areas, ISIL has been able to dig in.  They have shown themselves to be resilient, and they are very effective through social media and have been able to attract adherents not just from the areas in which they operate, but in many of our own countries.

There are going to be successes and there are going to be setbacks.  This is not a conventional battle.  This is a long-term campaign -- not only against this particular network, but against its ideology.  And so with the few minutes I have, I want to provide a brief overview of where we stand currently.

Our coalition has grown to some 60 nations, including our Arab partners.  Together, we welcome three new countries to our coalition -- Nigeria, Tunisia and Malaysia.  Nearly two dozen nations are in some way contributing to the military campaign, and we salute and are grateful for all the servicemembers from our respective nations who are performing with skill and determination.

In Iraq, ISIL continues to hold Mosul, Fallujah and Ramadi.  But Iraqi forces, backed by coalition air power, have liberated towns across Kirkuk province and Tikrit.  ISIL has now lost nearly a third of the populated areas in Iraq that it had controlled.  Eighteen countries are now helping to train and support Iraqi forces, including Sunni volunteers who want to push ISIL out of their communities.  And, Prime Minister Abadi, I want to note the enormous sacrifices being made by Iraqi forces and the Iraqi people in this fight every day.

In Syria, which has obviously been a topic of significant discussion during the course of this General Assembly, we have seen support from Turkey that has allowed us to intensify our air campaign there.  ISIL has been pushed back from large sections of northeastern Syria, including the key city of Tal Abyad, putting new pressure on its stronghold of Raqqa.  And ISIL has been cut off from almost the entire region bordering Turkey, which is a critical step toward stemming the flow of foreign terrorist fighters.

Following the special Security Council meeting I chaired last year, more than 20 additional countries have passed or strengthened laws to disrupt the flow of foreign terrorist fighters.  We share more information and we are strengthening border controls.  We've prevented would-be fighters from reaching the battlefield and returning to threaten our countries.  But this remains a very difficult challenge, and today we're going to focus on how we can do more together.  In conjunction with this summit, the United States and our partners are also taking new steps to crack down on the illicit finance that ISIL uses to pay its fighters, fund its operations and launch attacks.

Our military and intelligence efforts are not going to succeed alone; they have to be matched by political and economic progress to address the conditions that ISIL has exploited in order to take root.  Prime Minister Abadi is taking important steps to build a more inclusive and accountable government, while working to stabilize areas taken back from ISIL.  And our nations need to help Prime Minister Abadi in these efforts.

In Syria, as I said yesterday, defeating ISIL requires -- I believe -- a new leader and an inclusive government that unites the Syrian people in the fight against terrorist groups.  This is going to be a complex process.  And as I've said before, we are prepared to work with all countries, including Russia and Iran, to find a political mechanism in which it is possible to begin a transition process.

As ISIL's tentacles reach into other regions, the United States is increasing our counterterrorism cooperation with partners, like Tunisia.  We're boosting our support to Nigeria and its neighbors as they push back against Boko Haram, which has pledged allegiance to ISIL.  And we're creating a new clearinghouse to better coordinate the world's support for countries' counterterrorism programs so that our efforts are as effective as possible.

Ultimately, however, it is not going to be enough to defeat ISIL in the battlefield.  We have to prevent it from radicalizing, recruiting and inspiring others to violence in the first place.  And this means defeating their ideology.  Ideologies are not defeated with guns, they're defeated by better ideas -- a more attractive and compelling vision.  Building on our White House summit earlier this year, and summits around the world since then, we're moving ahead, together, in several areas.

We're stepping up our efforts to discredit ISIL's propaganda, especially online.  The UAE's new messaging hub -- the Sawab Center -- is exposing ISIL for what it is, which is a band of terrorists that kills innocent Muslim men, women and children.  We're working to lift up the voices of Muslim scholars, clerics and others -- including ISIL defectors -- who courageously stand up to ISIL and its warped interpretations of Islam.

We recognize that we have to confront the economic grievances that exist in some of the areas that ISIL seeks to exploit.  Poverty does not cause terrorism.  But as we've seen across the Middle East and North Africa, when people, especially young people, are impoverished and hopeless and feel humiliated by injustice and corruption, that can fuel resentments that terrorists exploit.  Which is why sustainable development -- creating opportunity and dignity, particularly for youth -- is part of countering violent extremism.

We recognize we also have to address the political grievances that ISIL exploits.  I've said this before -- when human rights are denied and citizens have no opportunity to redress their grievances peacefully, it feeds terrorist propaganda that justifies violence.  Likewise, when political opponents are treated like terrorists and thrown in jail, it can be a self-fulfilling prophecy.  So the real path to lasting stability and progress is not less democracy; I believe it is more democracy in terms of free speech, and freedom of religion, rule of law, strong civil societies.  All that has to play a part in countering violent extremism.

And finally, we recognize that our best partners in protecting vulnerable people from succumbing to violent extremist ideologies are the communities themselves -- families, friends, neighbors, clerics, faith leaders who love and care for these young people.

Remember that violent extremism is not unique to any one faith, so no one should be profiled or targeted simply because of their faith.  Yet we have to recognize that ISIL is targeting Muslim communities around the world, especially individuals who may be disillusioned or confused or wrestling with their identities.

And in all our countries, we have to continue to build true partnerships with Muslim communities, based on trust and cooperation, so that they can help protect their loved ones from becoming radicalized.  This cannot just be the work of government.  It is up to all of us.  We have to commit ourselves to build diverse, tolerant, inclusive societies that reject anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant bigotry that creates the divisions, the fear and the resentments upon which extremists can prey.

I'm pleased that here at this summit, businesses -- including high-tech companies -- are investing funds, training and technological expertise to support innovative programs that push back on violent extremism.  Cities around the world are joining together to build more resilient communities.  Researchers are partnering to share best practices, knowing what works and what we can do better.

And as we saw yesterday, young people from around the world are participating in their own summit.  These young people, many of them Muslim, are coming together and using their talents and technology to push back on ISIL's propaganda, especially online, and to protect their brothers and sisters from recruitment.  These young people are an inspiration and give us hope, and I'd ask everyone to join me in thanking all the young people who are here today.  (Applause.)

So, to conclude, we face a grave challenge.  We have to be clear-eyed about the fact that this is very hard work.  We have individuals here, like Prime Minister Abadi and President Buhari, who are on the front lines.  And this is not going to be turned around overnight, because it is not just a military campaign that we are involved in.  There are profound changes taking place in the Middle East and North Africa.  There are problems that have built over decades that are expressing themselves and manifesting themselves in organizations like ISIL.  Even if we were to wipe out the entire cadre of ISIL leadership, we would still have some of these forces at work.

But, ultimately, I am optimistic.  In Iraq and in Syria, ISIL is surrounded by communities, countries and a broad international coalition committed to its destruction.  We've seen that ISIL can be defeated on the battlefield, where there is sound organization and a government and military that is coordinating with this coalition and with our diplomatic efforts.  And here at this summit, we're seeing a new global movement to counter the violent extremism that ISIL needs to survive.

Like terrorists and tyrants throughout history, ISIL will eventually lose because it has nothing to offer but suffering and death.  And when you look at the reports of those who are laboring under their control, it is a stark and brutal life that does not appeal to people over the long term.  So we will ultimately prevail because we are guided by a stronger, better vision:  a commitment to the security, opportunity and dignity of every human being.  But it will require diligence, focus and sustained effort by all of us.  And I am grateful that all of you who are already participating are committed to this work.

With that, I want to give the floor to our Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon.  (Applause.)

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Mr. President, Mr. Secretary General, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen:  Seventy years after the founding of the United Nations, it is worth reflecting on what, together, the members of this body have helped to achieve.

Out of the ashes of the Second World War, having witnessed the unthinkable power of the atomic age, the United States has worked with many nations in this Assembly to prevent a third world war -- by forging alliances with old adversaries; by supporting the steady emergence of strong democracies accountable to their people instead of any foreign power; and by building an international system that imposes a cost on those who choose conflict over cooperation, an order that recognizes the dignity and equal worth of all people.

That is the work of seven decades.  That is the ideal that this body, at its best, has pursued.  Of course, there have been too many times when, collectively, we have fallen short of these ideals.  Over seven decades, terrible conflicts have claimed untold victims.  But we have pressed forward, slowly, steadily, to make a system of international rules and norms that are better and stronger and more consistent.

It is this international order that has underwritten unparalleled advances in human liberty and prosperity.  It is this collective endeavor that's brought about diplomatic cooperation between the world's major powers, and buttressed a global economy that has lifted more than a billion people from poverty.  It is these international principles that helped constrain bigger countries from imposing our will on smaller ones, and advanced the emergence of democracy and development and individual liberty on every continent.

This progress is real.  It can be documented in lives saved, and agreements forged, and diseases conquered, and in mouths fed. And yet, we come together today knowing that the march of human progress never travels in a straight line, that our work is far from complete; that dangerous currents risk pulling us back into a darker, more disordered world.

Today, we see the collapse of strongmen and fragile states breeding conflict, and driving innocent men, women and children across borders on an *epoch epic scale.  Brutal networks of terror have stepped into the vacuum.  Technologies that empower individuals are now also exploited by those who spread disinformation, or suppress dissent, or radicalize our youth.  Global capital flows have powered growth and investment, but also increased risk of contagion, weakened the bargaining power of workers, and accelerated inequality.

How should we respond to these trends?  There are those who argue that the ideals enshrined in the U.N. charter are unachievable or out of date -- a legacy of a postwar era not suited to our own.  Effectively, they argue for a return to the rules that applied for most of human history and that pre-date this institution: the belief that power is a zero-sum game; that might makes right; that strong states must impose their will on weaker ones; that the rights of individuals don't matter; and that in a time of rapid change, order must be imposed by force.

On this basis, we see some major powers assert themselves in ways that contravene international law.  We see an erosion of the democratic principles and human rights that are fundamental to this institution's mission; information is strictly controlled, the space for civil society restricted.  We're told that such retrenchment is required to beat back disorder; that it's the only way to stamp out terrorism, or prevent foreign meddling.  In accordance with this logic, we should support tyrants like Bashar al-Assad, who drops barrel bombs to massacre innocent children, because the alternative is surely worse.

The increasing skepticism of our international order can also be found in the most advanced democracies.  We see greater polarization, more frequent gridlock; movements on the far right, and sometimes the left, that insist on stopping the trade that binds our fates to other nations, calling for the building of walls to keep out immigrants.  Most ominously, we see the fears of ordinary people being exploited through appeals to sectarianism, or tribalism, or racism, or anti-Semitism; appeals to a glorious past before the body politic was infected by those who look different, or worship God differently; a politics of us versus them.

The United States is not immune from this.  Even as our economy is growing and our troops have largely returned from Iraq and Afghanistan, we see in our debates about America's role in the world a notion of strength that is defined by opposition to old enemies, perceived adversaries, a rising China, or a resurgent Russia; a revolutionary Iran, or an Islam that is incompatible with peace.  We see an argument made that the only strength that matters for the United States is bellicose words and shows of military force; that cooperation and diplomacy will not work.

As President of the United States, I am mindful of the dangers that we face; they cross my desk every morning.  I lead the strongest military that the world has ever known, and I will never hesitate to protect my country or our allies, unilaterally and by force where necessary.

But I stand before you today believing in my core that we, the nations of the world, cannot return to the old ways of conflict and coercion.  We cannot look backwards.  We live in an integrated world -- one in which we all have a stake in each other's success.  We cannot turn those forces of integration.  No nation in this Assembly can insulate itself from the threat of terrorism, or the risk of financial contagion; the flow of migrants, or the danger of a warming planet.  The disorder we see is not driven solely by competition between nations or any single ideology.  And if we cannot work together more effectively, we will all suffer the consequences.  That is true for the United States, as well.

No matter how powerful our military, how strong our economy, we understand the United States cannot solve the world's problems alone.  In Iraq, the United States learned the hard lesson that even hundreds of thousands of brave, effective troops, trillions of dollars from our Treasury, cannot by itself impose stability on a foreign land.  Unless we work with other nations under the mantle of international norms and principles and law that offer legitimacy to our efforts, we will not succeed.  And unless we work together to defeat the ideas that drive different communities in a country like Iraq into conflict, any order that our militaries can impose will be temporary.

Just as force alone cannot impose order internationally, I believe in my core that repression cannot forge the social cohesion for nations to succeed.  The history of the last two decades proves that in today's world, dictatorships are unstable. The strongmen of today become the spark of revolution tomorrow.  You can jail your opponents, but you can't imprison ideas.  You can try to control access to information, but you cannot turn a lie into truth.  It is not a conspiracy of U.S.-backed NGOs that expose corruption and raise the expectations of people around the globe; it's technology, social media, and the irreducible desire of people everywhere to make their own choices about how they are governed.

Indeed, I believe that in today's world, the measure of strength is no longer defined by the control of territory.   Lasting prosperity does not come solely from the ability to access and extract raw materials.  The strength of nations depends on the success of their people -- their knowledge, their innovation, their imagination, their creativity, their drive, their opportunity -- and that, in turn, depends upon individual rights and good governance and personal security.  Internal repression and foreign aggression are both symptoms of the failure to provide this foundation.

A politics and solidarity that depend on demonizing others, that draws on religious sectarianism or narrow tribalism or jingoism may at times look like strength in the moment, but over time its weakness will be exposed.  And history tells us that the dark forces unleashed by this type of politics surely makes all of us less secure.  Our world has been there before.  We gain nothing from going back.

Instead, I believe that we must go forward in pursuit of our ideals, not abandon them at this critical time.  We must give expression to our best hopes, not our deepest fears.  This institution was founded because men and women who came before us had the foresight to know that our nations are more secure when we uphold basic laws and basic norms, and pursue a path of cooperation over conflict.  And strong nations, above all, have a responsibility to uphold this international order.

Let me give you a concrete example.  After I took office, I made clear that one of the principal achievements of this body -- the nuclear non-proliferation regime -- was endangered by Iran's violation of the NPT.  On that basis, the Security Council tightened sanctions on the Iranian government, and many nations joined us to enforce them.  Together, we showed that laws and agreements mean something.

But we also understood that the goal of sanctions was not simply to punish Iran.  Our objective was to test whether Iran could change course, accept constraints, and allow the world to verify that its nuclear program will be peaceful.  For two years, the United States and our partners -- including Russia, including China -- stuck together in complex negotiations.  The result is a lasting, comprehensive deal that prevents Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, while allowing it to access peaceful energy.  And if this deal is fully implemented, the prohibition on nuclear weapons is strengthened, a potential war is averted, our world is safer.  That is the strength of the international system when it works the way it should.

That same fidelity to international order guides our responses to other challenges around the world.  Consider Russia's annexation of Crimea and further aggression in eastern Ukraine.  America has few economic interests in Ukraine.  We recognize the deep and complex history between Russia and Ukraine.  But we cannot stand by when the sovereignty and territorial integrity of a nation is flagrantly violated.  If that happens without consequence in Ukraine, it could happen to any nation gathered here today.  That's the basis of the sanctions that the United States and our partners impose on Russia.  It's not a desire to return to a Cold War.

Now, within Russia, state-controlled media may describe these events as an example of a resurgent Russia -- a view shared, by the way, by a number of U.S. politicians and commentators who have always been deeply skeptical of Russia, and seem to be convinced a new Cold War is, in fact, upon us.  And yet, look at the results.  The Ukrainian people are more interested than ever in aligning with Europe instead of Russia. Sanctions have led to capital flight, a contracting economy, a fallen ruble, and the emigration of more educated Russians.

Imagine if, instead, Russia had engaged in true diplomacy, and worked with Ukraine and the international community to ensure its interests were protected.  That would be better for Ukraine, but also better for Russia, and better for the world -- which is why we continue to press for this crisis to be resolved in a way that allows a sovereign and democratic Ukraine to determine its future and control its territory.  Not because we want to isolate Russia -- we don't -- but because we want a strong Russia that's invested in working with us to strengthen the international system as a whole.

Similarly, in the South China Sea, the United States makes no claim on territory there.  We don't adjudicate claims.  But like every nation gathered here, we have an interest in upholding the basic principles of freedom of navigation and the free flow of commerce, and in resolving disputes through international law, not the law of force.  So we will defend these principles, while encouraging China and other claimants to resolve their differences peacefully.

I say this, recognizing that diplomacy is hard; that the outcomes are sometimes unsatisfying; that it's rarely politically popular.  But I believe that leaders of large nations, in particular, have an obligation to take these risks -- precisely because we are strong enough to protect our interests if, and when, diplomacy fails.

I also believe that to move forward in this new era, we have to be strong enough to acknowledge when what you're doing is not working.  For 50 years, the United States pursued a Cuba policy that failed to improve the lives of the Cuban people.  We changed that.  We continue to have differences with the Cuban government. We will continue to stand up for human rights.  But we address these issues through diplomatic relations, and increased commerce, and people-to-people ties.  As these contacts yield progress, I'm confident that our Congress will inevitably lift an embargo that should not be in place anymore.  (Applause.)  Change won't come overnight to Cuba, but I'm confident that openness, not coercion, will support the reforms and better the life the Cuban people deserve, just as I believe that Cuba will find its success if it pursues cooperation with other nations.

Now, if it's in the interest of major powers to uphold international standards, it is even more true for the rest of the community of nations.  Look around the world.  From Singapore to Colombia to Senegal, the facts shows that nations succeed when they pursue an inclusive peace and prosperity within their borders, and work cooperatively with countries beyond their borders.

That path is now available to a nation like Iran, which, as of this moment, continues to deploy violent proxies to advance its interests.  These efforts may appear to give Iran leverage in disputes with neighbors, but they fuel sectarian conflict that endangers the entire region, and isolates Iran from the promise of trade and commerce.  The Iranian people have a proud history, and are filled with extraordinary potential.  But chanting "Death to America" does not create jobs, or make Iran more secure.  If Iran chose a different path, that would be good for the security of the region, good for the Iranian people, and good for the world.

Of course, around the globe, we will continue to be confronted with nations who reject these lessons of history, places where civil strife, border disputes, and sectarian wars bring about terrorist enclaves and humanitarian disasters.  Where order has completely broken down, we must act, but we will be stronger when we act together.

In such efforts, the United States will always do our part. We will do so mindful of the lessons of the past -- not just the lessons of Iraq, but also the example of Libya, where we joined an international coalition under a U.N. mandate to prevent a slaughter.  Even as we helped the Libyan people bring an end to the reign of a tyrant, our coalition could have and should have done more to fill a vacuum left behind.  We're grateful to the United Nations for its efforts to forge a unity government.  We will help any legitimate Libyan government as it works to bring the country together.  But we also have to recognize that we must work more effectively in the future, as an international community, to build capacity for states that are in distress, before they collapse.

And that's why we should celebrate the fact that later today the United States will join with more than 50 countries to enlist new capabilities -- infantry, intelligence, helicopters, hospitals, and tens of thousands of troops -- to strengthen United Nations peacekeeping.  (Applause.)  These new capabilities can prevent mass killing, and ensure that peace agreements are more than words on paper.  But we have to do it together.  Together, we must strengthen our collective capacity to establish security where order has broken down, and to support those who seek a just and lasting peace.

Nowhere is our commitment to international order more tested than in Syria.  When a dictator slaughters tens of thousands of his own people, that is not just a matter of one nation's internal affairs -- it breeds human suffering on an order of magnitude that affects us all.  Likewise, when a terrorist group beheads captives, slaughters the innocent and enslaves women, that's not a single nation's national security problem -- that is an assault on all humanity.

I've said before and I will repeat:  There is no room for accommodating an apocalyptic cult like ISIL, and the United States makes no apologies for using our military, as part of a broad coalition, to go after them.  We do so with a determination to ensure that there will never be a safe haven for terrorists who carry out these crimes.  And we have demonstrated over more than a decade of relentless pursuit of al Qaeda, we will not be outlasted by extremists.

But while military power is necessary, it is not sufficient to resolve the situation in Syria.  Lasting stability can only take hold when the people of Syria forge an agreement to live together peacefully.  The United States is prepared to work with any nation, including Russia and Iran, to resolve the conflict. But we must recognize that there cannot be, after so much bloodshed, so much carnage, a return to the pre-war status quo.

Let's remember how this started.  Assad reacted to peaceful protests by escalating repression and killing that, in turn, created the environment for the current strife.  And so Assad and his allies cannot simply pacify the broad majority of a population who have been brutalized by chemical weapons and indiscriminate bombing.  Yes, realism dictates that compromise will be required to end the fighting and ultimately stamp out ISIL.  But realism also requires a managed transition away from Assad and to a new leader, and an inclusive government that recognizes there must be an end to this chaos so that the Syrian people can begin to rebuild.

We know that ISIL -- which emerged out of the chaos of Iraq and Syria -- depends on perpetual war to survive.  But we also know that they gain adherents because of a poisonous ideology.  So part of our job, together, is to work to reject such extremism that infects too many of our young people.  Part of that effort must be a continued rejection by Muslims of those who distort Islam to preach intolerance and promote violence, and it must also a rejection by non-Muslims of the ignorance that equates Islam with terror.  (Applause.)

This work will take time.  There are no easy answers to Syria.  And there are no simple answers to the changes that are taking place in much of the Middle East and North Africa.  But so many families need help right now; they don't have time.  And that's why the United States is increasing the number of refugees who we welcome within our borders.  That's why we will continue to be the largest donor of assistance to support those refugees. And today we are launching new efforts to ensure that our people and our businesses, our universities and our NGOs can help as well -- because in the faces of suffering families, our nation of immigrants sees ourselves.

Of course, in the old ways of thinking, the plight of the powerless, the plight of refugees, the plight of the marginalized did not matter.  They were on the periphery of the world's concerns.  Today, our concern for them is driven not just by conscience, but should also be drive by self-interest.  For helping people who have been pushed to the margins of our world is not mere charity, it is a matter of collective security.  And the purpose of this institution is not merely to avoid conflict, it is to galvanize the collective action that makes life better on this planet.

The commitments we've made to the Sustainable Development Goals speak to this truth.  I believe that capitalism has been the greatest creator of wealth and opportunity that the world has ever known.  But from big cities to rural villages around the world, we also know that prosperity is still cruelly out of reach for too many.  As His Holiness Pope Francis reminds us, we are stronger when we value the least among these, and see them as equal in dignity to ourselves and our sons and our daughters.

We can roll back preventable disease and end the scourge of HIV/AIDS.  We can stamp out pandemics that recognize no borders. That work may not be on television right now, but as we demonstrated in reversing the spread of Ebola, it can save more lives than anything else we can do.

Together, we can eradicate extreme poverty and erase barriers to opportunity.  But this requires a sustained commitment to our people -- so farmers can feed more people; so entrepreneurs can start a business without paying a bribe; so young people have the skills they need to succeed in this modern, knowledge-based economy.

We can promote growth through trade that meets a higher standard.  And that's what we're doing through the Trans-Pacific Partnership -- a trade agreement that encompasses nearly 40 percent of the global economy; an agreement that will open markets, while protecting the rights of workers and protecting the environment that enables development to be sustained.

We can roll back the pollution that we put in our skies, and help economies lift people out of poverty without condemning our children to the ravages of an ever-warming climate.  The same ingenuity that produced the Industrial Age and the Computer Age allows us to harness the potential of clean energy.  No country can escape the ravages of climate change.  And there is no stronger sign of leadership than putting future generations first.  The United States will work with every nation that is willing to do its part so that we can come together in Paris to decisively confront this challenge.

And finally, our vision for the future of this Assembly, my belief in moving forward rather than backwards, requires us to defend the democratic principles that allow societies to succeed. Let me start from a simple premise:  Catastrophes, like what we are seeing in Syria, do not take place in countries where there is genuine democracy and respect for the universal values this institution is supposed to defend.  (Applause.)

I recognize that democracy is going to take different forms in different parts of the world.  The very idea of a people governing themselves depends upon government giving expression to their unique culture, their unique history, their unique experiences.  But some universal truths are self-evident.  No person wants to be imprisoned for peaceful worship.  No woman should ever be abused with impunity, or a girl barred from going to school.  The freedom to peacefully petition those in power without fear of arbitrary laws -- these are not ideas of one country or one culture.  They are fundamental to human progress. They are a cornerstone of this institution.

I realize that in many parts of the world there is a different view -- a belief that strong leadership must tolerate no dissent.  I hear it not only from America's adversaries, but privately at least I also hear it from some of our friends.  I disagree.  I believe a government that suppresses peaceful dissent is not showing strength; it is showing weakness and it is showing fear.  (Applause.)  History shows that regimes who fear their own people will eventually crumble, but strong institutions built on the consent of the governed endure long after any one individual is gone.

That's why our strongest leaders -- from George Washington to Nelson Mandela -- have elevated the importance of building strong, democratic institutions over a thirst for perpetual power.  Leaders who amend constitutions to stay in office only acknowledge that they failed to build a successful country for their people -- because none of us last forever.  It tells us that power is something they cling to for its own sake, rather than for the betterment of those they purport to serve.

I understand democracy is frustrating.  Democracy in the United States is certainly imperfect.  At times, it can even be dysfunctional.  But democracy -- the constant struggle to extend rights to more of our people, to give more people a voice -- is what allowed us to become the most powerful nation in the world. (Applause.)

It's not simply a matter of principle; it's not an abstraction.  Democracy -- inclusive democracy -- makes countries stronger.  When opposition parties can seek power peacefully through the ballot, a country draws upon new ideas.  When a free media can inform the public, corruption and abuse are exposed and can be rooted out.  When civil society thrives, communities can solve problems that governments cannot necessarily solve alone.  When immigrants are welcomed, countries are more productive and more vibrant.  When girls can go to school, and get a job, and pursue unlimited opportunity, that's when a country realizes its full potential.  (Applause.)

That is what I believe is America's greatest strength.  Not everybody in America agrees with me.  That's part of democracy.  I believe that the fact that you can walk the streets of this city right now and pass churches and synagogues and temples and mosques, where people worship freely; the fact that our nation of immigrants mirrors the diversity of the world -- you can find everybody from everywhere here in New York City -- (applause) -- the fact that, in this country, everybody can contribute, everybody can participate no matter who they are, or what they look like, or who they love -- that's what makes us strong.

And I believe that what is true for America is true for virtually all mature democracies.  And that is no accident.  We can be proud of our nations without defining ourselves in opposition to some other group.  We can be patriotic without demonizing someone else.  We can cherish our own identities -- our religion, our ethnicity, our traditions -- without putting others down.  Our systems are premised on the notion that absolute power will corrupt, but that people -- ordinary people  -- are fundamentally good; that they value family and friendship, faith and the dignity of hard work; and that with appropriate checks and balances, governments can reflect this goodness.

I believe that's the future we must seek together.  To believe in the dignity of every individual, to believe we can bridge our differences, and choose cooperation over conflict -- that is not weakness, that is strength.  (Applause.)  It is a practical necessity in this interconnected world.

And our people understand this.  Think of the Liberian doctor who went door-to-door to search for Ebola cases, and to tell families what to do if they show symptoms.  Think of the Iranian shopkeeper who said, after the nuclear deal, "God willing, now we'll be able to offer many more goods at better prices."  Think of the Americans who lowered the flag over our embassy in Havana in 1961 -- the year I was born -- and returned this summer to raise that flag back up.  (Applause.)  One of these men said of the Cuban people, "We could do things for them, and they could do things for us.  We loved them."  For 50 years, we ignored that fact.

Think of the families leaving everything they've known behind, risking barren deserts and stormy waters just to find shelter; just to save their children.  One Syrian refugee who was greeted in Hamburg with warm greetings and shelter, said, "We feel there are still some people who love other people."

The people of our United Nations are not as different as they are told.  They can be made to fear; they can be taught to hate -- but they can also respond to hope.  History is littered with the failure of false prophets and fallen empires who believed that might always makes right, and that will continue to be the case.  You can count on that.  But we are called upon to offer a different type of leadership -- leadership strong enough to recognize that nations share common interests and people share a common humanity, and, yes, there are certain ideas and principles that are universal.

That's what those who shaped the United Nations 70 years ago understood.  Let us carry forward that faith into the future -- for it is the only way we can assure that future will be brighter for my children, and for yours.

Thank you very much.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, New York!  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you, Democrats!  Thank you, New York!  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Everybody, sit down.  Obergefell.  (Applause.)  Just to be clear.  It is good to be in New York.  (Applause.)  Although, I do apologize -- this week is rough for you guys.  (Laughter.)  I mean, traffic is bad enough during UNGA, but you add the Pope to it -- (laughter) -- and that's serious traffic.

Give it up for Betty Who!  (Applause.)  And give it up for Jim for not just the terrific introduction, but Jim represents all the trailblazers and pioneers and activists whose courage and persistence have made America a better place.  Please give him a big round of applause.  (Applause.)  We're very proud of him.

We've got some outstanding members of Congress and elected officials who are here tonight, including the chair of the DNC, Debbie Wasserman Schultz.  (Applause.)  It is Debbie’s birthday today.  (Applause.)  You threw her quite a party.  We've also got DNC treasurer, Andy Tobias.  (Applause.)  Senator Tammy Baldwin. (Applause.)  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is here. (Applause.)  Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey is here. (Applause.)  And of course, all of you are here.  (Applause.)
Seven years ago we came together not just to elect a president, but to reaffirm our faith in that most American of ideals -- the notion that people, no matter where they come from, what they look like, what their last name is, or who they love can change this country.  (Applause.)  And from the beginning, that faith was tested -- by a Great Recession, by political obstruction, by established barriers and everyday indignities, all of which reminded us that our march toward equality was unfinished.

And time after time, the cynics told us that we were foolish to keep believing, that we were naïve to hope, that change was too messy or not possible at all.  And if you admit it, there were some in this room here who were skeptical that everything that needed to happen would happen.  The cynics were wrong.  Tonight, we live in an America where “don’t ask, don’t tell” is something that “don’t exist.”  (Applause.)

We live in an America where all of us -- LGBT or not -- are protected by a hate crimes law that bears Matthew Shepard’s name. (Applause.)  We live in an America where a growing share of older generations recognize that love is love, and younger generations don't even know what all the fuss was about.  (Applause.)  And tonight, thanks to the unbending sense of justice passed down through generations of citizens who never gave up hope that we could bring this country closer to our founding ideals -- that all of us are created equal -- we now live in America where our marriages are equal as well.  (Applause.)

It’s getting better for all of us.  Our businesses have created 13 million new jobs in the past five and half years.  (Applause.)  In 2012, the Republican nominee for this office promised to get the unemployment rate down to 6 percent by the end of next year.  (Laughter.)  We moved that up a little bit and got it down to 5 percent right now.  (Applause.)  We were told that Obamacare would kill jobs, explode the deficits, destroy freedom.  Today, we’ve seen 66 consecutive months of private sector job growth -- (applause) -- a streak that just happened to begin the month I signed Obamacare into law.  (Applause.)    Meanwhile, we've cut our deficit by two-thirds, and over 17 million Americans have health insurance because of Obamacare.  (Applause.)  And along with the 17 million who’ve got health insurance through Obamacare, there are tens of millions more -- all of you if you’ve got health insurance -- who now know that in this country, you can't be discriminated against just because you get sick.  (Applause.)  Those days are in the past.

Reading scores are up.  College attendance is up.  High school graduations are up.  We've doubled the production of clean energy.  We are making incredible progress when it comes to climate change.  (Applause.)  On every metric, by every standard, we've made progress.

Now, you would not know this -- (laughter) -- if you were listening to the busload of Republicans fighting each other for this job.  (Laughter.)  It somehow doesn’t come up in debate.  (Laughter.)  In their world, everything was terrific back in 2008 -- (laughter) -- when we were in the midst of a spiral into the worst financial crisis and economic crisis since the Great Depression, when unemployment and uninsured rates were rising and when our economy was shedding jobs each month, and we were mired in two wars, hopelessly addicted to foreign oil, and bin Laden was still at large.  Those were the Golden Years, apparently.  (Laughter.)  And then, I came in and messed it all up.  (Applause.)

I have to say, I don't pay attention to much of this stuff. (Laughter.)  But you got to give these folks credit for chutzpah. (Laughter.)  I mean, they maintain a straight face when they’re saying this.  And then, in interviews, the reporters are, like, just kind of letting them talk as if what they were saying was true.  (Laughter.)

And so since everything was doing so well back in 2007-2008, now if we can just repeal Obamacare, and gut Wall Street reform, and shut down our government over women’s access to health care, and deny that the planet is getting warmer, they’ve got a plan to get us back on track.  (Laughter.)

Now, the good news is they probably won’t use marriage equality as a wedge issue like they did in 2004 because the country has come too far.  (Applause.)  In fact, America has left the leaders of the Republican Party behind.  One of their leading candidates argued that going to prison turns you gay.  (Laughter.)  Well, you think I'm -- I shouldn’t go into this?  (Laughter.)  No, I mean, I'm just stating the facts.  Another candidate boasts that he introduced an amendment to end nationwide marriage equality -- which isn’t even an accomplishment at all.  (Laughter and applause.)  A third says Americans should just disobey the Supreme Court’s ruling entirely.  I'm sure he loves the Constitution -- except for Article III.  (Laughter and applause.)  And maybe the Equal Protection Amendment.  And 14th Amendment, generally.  (Laughter.)

Now, look, for some Americans, there’s no doubt that this change has been a world-wind.  And we believe that these changes have been for the better.  But we have to recognize -- and in fact, I know the people in this room do because they felt it in their own family sometimes, or in the workplace -- that with change, with any progress, comes some unease.  And as Americans, I think we have to acknowledge that.  I think that it's important for us to recognize that there are still parts of the country that are getting there, but it's going to take some time.

We affirm that we cherish our religious freedom and are profoundly respectful of religious traditions.  But we also have to say clearly that our religious freedom doesn’t grant us the freedom to deny our fellow Americans their constitutional rights. (Applause.)  And that even as we are respectful and accommodating genuine concerns and interests of religious institutions, we need to reject politicians who are supporting new forms of discrimination as a way to scare up votes.  (Applause.)  That's not how we move America forward.

So to secure the gains this country has made requires continued vigilance, not complacency.  This country has come too far, and people of goodwill in both political parties are too plentiful to turn back now.  We’ve made sure that federal contractors can’t fire a worker just for being gay.  (Applause.) We should make sure that no American lives in fear of being fired just because of who they love.  (Applause.)  We’ve come a long way in changing hearts and minds so that trans men and women can be who they are -- not just on magazine covers, but in workplaces and schools and communities.  (Applause.)  And to build on that progress, we should support efforts to ban so-called “conversion therapy” for minors.  (Applause.)

So we've got to keep striving every day to treat each other the way I believe God sees us, as equal in His eyes.

Harvey Milk once said, “If a gay person makes it, the doors are open to everyone.”  But to those of us who’ve made it through those doors, we've got a unique obligation to reach back and make sure other people can make it through those doors, too.  (Applause.)  We have a responsibility to stand up to bigotry -- not just against us, but against anybody, anywhere.  (Applause.) We have a responsibility to stand up for freedom -- not just our own freedom, but for everybody’s freedom.  (Applause.)  We speak up to condemn hatred against anybody -- gay or straight, black or white, Christian, Muslim, Jew, non-believer, immigrant -- (applause) -- because we remember what silence felt like when hatred was directed at us, and we've got to be champions on behalf of justice for everybody, not just our own.  (Applause.)

That's what makes us human.  And that's America at its best -- our ability to connect, our ability to see ourselves in somebody else.  To be an ally to the marginalized, to the dispossessed, to the discriminated against.  To recognize our joy and our struggles and our fears and our hope and our love in somebody else.

Maybe it’s the trans activist demanding dignity.  Maybe it’s the immigrant hoping to contribute, or the middle-class kid struggling to pay for college.  Maybe it’s the woman denied equal pay, the African-American denied the right to vote, the worker denied a living wage.  Their stories may not be ours, but surely we can see our stories in theirs.  We can make their fight our own.

And in the end, that’s what makes me proudest to be a Democrat.  (Applause.)  I think we're right on most policy issues.  I think that we have the better argument in economics and foreign affairs.  But at the core of this party today as it's currently constituted -- and we have to remind ourselves that it hasn’t always been that way.  There have been times where the Democratic Party stood in the way of progress.  And there have been times where Republicans, like Abraham Lincoln and Everett Dirksen, stood on the right side of change.

Right now, what makes me proudest about being a Democrat is, is that at our core, we really do believe in everybody having a shot.  At our core, we really do believe that that's not just a theoretical assertion, but it's an obligation.  It compels us.  It's part of one American family -- to fight on behalf of those who haven't had the same kind of chances that we do.  To make sure that everybody has dignity and respect, and that every kid out there is able to live out their dreams.

We mean it when we say that all are created equal.  And we understand that that has to be operative in our own individual lives, but we also have to express it through the common enterprise called government.  We mean it when we say that in this country, of all countries, everyone deserves an equal shot.
And so, Democrats, over the next 14 months, we have to work even harder than we did when I was first on the ballot.  We're going to have to work harder to protect the gains that we’ve made.  We're going to have to work harder to widen the circle of opportunity for all who strive for it.  It will not be easy.  There’s always a contest in this country since its founding between hope and fear.  What makes America special is, is that though sometimes we zig and zag, eventually hope wins out.  But it only wins out because folks like you put your shoulder behind the wheel and push it in that direction.

That was true in the past.  That will be true in the future. I look forward to working with you to make sure it happens in this election cycle.

Thank you, everybody.  God bless you.  God bless America.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  (Applause.)

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Good afternoon.  Mr. Secretary General, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen.  It is a great honor to be here to address the topic of sustainable development.

In many of our nations, especially developed countries, there is among our general population a genuine compassion towards those in need.  There is a recognition of the grinding poverty that so many experience every day around the world.  And yet sometimes it's said that our efforts to combat poverty and disease do not and cannot work, that there are some places beyond hope, that certain people and regions are condemned to an endless cycle of suffering.  Here, today, we put those myths to rest.  Today, we set aside the skepticism, and we lift up the hope that is available to us through collective action.

Because the world came together in an unprecedented effort, the global hunger rate has already been slashed.  Tens of millions of more boys and girls are today in school.  Prevention and treatment of measles and malaria and tuberculosis have saved nearly 60 million lives.  HIV/AIDS infections and deaths have plummeted.  And more than one billion people have lifted themselves up from extreme poverty -- one billion.

The entire world can take enormous pride in these historic achievements.  And so let the skeptics and cynics know development works.  Investing in public health works.  We can break the cycle of poverty.  People and nations can rise into prosperity.  Despite the cruelties of our world and the ravages of disease, millions of lives can be saved if we are focused, and if we work together.  Cynicism is our enemy.  A belief, a capacity in the dignity of every individual, and a recognition that we, each of us, can play a small part to play in lifting up people all around the world -- that is the message that we are sending here today.  And because of the work of so many who are assembled here today, we can point to past success.  And yet, we are also here today because we understand that our work is nowhere near done.  We can take pride in what we've accomplished, but we cannot be complacent.

When eleven boys and girls die every single minute from preventable causes, we know we have more work to do.  When hundreds of women die every single day just from having a baby, we know we have more work to do.  When tens of millions of children are still not in school, when hundreds of millions of people have no clean water, no toilets, we have so much more to do.

Right now, some 800 million men, women and children are scraping by on less than $1.25 a day.  Imagine that.  Gripped by the ache of an empty stomach.  Billions of our fellow human beings are at risk of dying from diseases that we know how to prevent.  Many children are just one mosquito bite away from death.  And that is a moral outrage.  It is a profound injustice. It is literally a matter of life and death, and now the world must act.  We cannot leave people behind.

And so, today, we commit ourselves to new Sustainable Development Goals, including our goal of ending extreme poverty in our world.  We do so understanding how difficult the task may be.  We suffer no illusions of the challenges ahead.  But we understand this is something that we must commit ourselves to.  Because in doing so, we recognize that our most basic bond -- our common humanity -- compels us to act.  An impoverished child in a distant slum or a neighborhood not that far from here is just as equal, just as worthy, as any of our children, as any of us, as any head of government or leader in this great hall.

We reaffirm that supporting development is not charity, but is instead one of the smartest investments we can make in our own future.  After all, it is a lack of development -- when people have no education, and no jobs, and no hope, a feeling that their basic human dignity is being violated -- that helps fuel so much of the tensions and conflict and instability in our world.

And I profoundly believe that many of the conflicts, the refugee crises, the military interventions over the years might have been avoided if nations had truly invested in the lives of their people, and if the wealthiest nations on Earth were better partners in working with those that are trying to lift themselves up.  (Applause.)

As one of the founders of the United Nations, Ralph Bunche once said, “Peace is no mere matter of men fighting or not fighting.  Peace, to have meaning…must be translated into bread or rice, shelter, health, and education.”

I’m here to say that in this work, the United States will continue to be your partner.  Five years ago, I pledged here that America would remain the global leader in development, and the United States government, in fact, remains the single largest donor of development assistance, including in global health.  In times of crisis -- from Ebola to Syria -- we are the largest provider of humanitarian aid.  In times of disaster and crisis, the world can count on the friendship and generosity of the American people.

The question before us, though, as an international community, is how do we meet these new goals that we’ve set today?  How can we do our work better?  How can we stretch our resources and our funding more effectively?  How can donor countries be smarter, and how can recipient countries do more with what they receive?  We have to learn from the past -- to see where we succeeded so that we can duplicate that success, and to understand where we’ve fallen short and correct those shortcomings.

And we start by understanding that this next chapter of development cannot fall victim to the old divides between developed nations and developing ones.  Poverty, growing inequality exists in all of our nations, and all of our nations have work to do.  And that includes here in the United States.

That’s why, after a terrible recession, my administration has worked to keep millions of families from falling into poverty.  That's why we’ve brought quality, affordable health care to more than 17 million Americans.  Here in this country, the wealthiest nation on Earth, we’re still working every day to perfect our union, and to be more equal and more just, and to treat the most vulnerable members of our society with value and concern.

That’s why, today, I am committing the United States to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.  (Applause.)  And as long as I am President, and well after I'm done being President, I will keep fighting for the education and housing and health care and jobs that reduce inequality and create opportunity here in the United States and around the world.  (Applause.)  Because this is not just the job of politicians; this is work for all of us.

This next chapter of development cannot just be about what governments spend, it has to harness the unprecedented resources of our interconnected world.  In just a few short years -- in the areas of health, and food security, and energy -- my administration has committed and helped mobilize more than $100 billion to promote development and save lives.  More than $100 billion.  And guided by the new consensus we reached in Addis, I'm calling on others to join us.  More governments, more institutions, more businesses, more philanthropies, more NGOs, more faith communities, more citizens -- we all need to step up with the will and the resources and the coordination to achieve our goals.  This must be the work of the world.

At the same time, this next chapter of development must focus not simply on the dollars we spend, but on the results that we achieve.  And this demands new technologies and approaches, accountability, data, behavioral science -- understanding that there’s lessons that we have learned, best practices on how people actually live so that we can dramatically improve outcomes.  It means breaking cycles of dependence by helping people become more self-sufficient -- not just giving people fish, but teaching them how to fish.  That's the purpose of development.

Rather than just sending food during famine -- although we have to do that to avert starvation -- we also have to bring new techniques and new seeds and new technologies to more farmers so they can boost their yields and increase their incomes, feed more people and lift countless millions out of poverty.  Rather than just respond to outbreaks like Ebola -- although we have to do that, and we have -- let’s also strengthen public health systems and advance global health security to prevent epidemics in the first place.

As more countries take ownership of their HIV/AIDS programs, the United States is setting two new bold goals.  Over the next two years, we’ll increase the number of people that our funding reaches -- so that nearly 13 million people with HIV/AIDS get lifesaving treatment -- and we’ll invest $300 million to help achieve a 40 percent reduction in new HIV infections among young women and girls in the hardest-hit areas of sub-Saharan Africa.  (Applause.)  And I believe we can do that -- the first AIDS-free generation.  (Applause.)

This next chapter of development must also unleash economic growth -- not just for a few at the top, but inclusive, sustainable growth that lifts up the fortunes of the many.  We know the ingredients for creating jobs and opportunity -- they are not a secret.  So let’s embrace reforms that attract trade and investment to areas that are in need of investment and in need of trade.  Let’s trade and build more together, make it easier for developing countries to sell more of their goods around the world.  And let’s invest in our greatest resource -- our people -- their education, their skills.  Let’s invest in innovative entrepreneurs, the striving young people who embrace new technology and are starting businesses and can ignite new industries that change the world.  I have met young people on every continent, and they can lead the way if we give them the tools they need.

Our new development goals are ambitious.  But thanks to the good work of many of you, they are achievable -- if we work together; if we meet our responsibilities to each other.  I believe that.  The progress of recent years gives us hope.  We know what works.  We know how to do this.  But perhaps because this is now my seventh year of addressing the General Assembly, I tend to be more blunt.  Along with the gray hair, I'm becoming more likely to speak my mind.  (Laughter.)  So indulge me when I say that we will never achieve our goals if we do not squarely confront several insidious threats to the dignity and well-being of people around the world.  No matter how much hard work is done by development agencies, no matter how large the donations and commitments that are made by donor countries, if we don't take care of some other elements of development, we will not meet the goals that we've set.

Number one, development is threatened by bad governance.  Today, we affirm what we know to be true from decades of experience -- development and economic growth that is truly sustainable and inclusive depends on governments and institutions that care about their people, that are accountable, that respect human rights and deliver justice for everybody and not just some.

So, in the face of corruption that siphons billions away from schools and hospitals and infrastructure into foreign bank accounts, governments have to embrace transparency and open government and rule of law.  And combating illicit finance must be a global effort because it is part of our development effort. And citizens and civil society groups must be free to organize and speak their mind and work for progress, because that's how countries develop; that's how countries succeed.

Development is also threatened by inequality.  And this is a political debate that we have in this country, so I just want to be clear, this is not something from which the United States is immune to.  Every country has to grapple with this issue.  The wealthiest and most powerful in our societies oftentimes like to keep things as they are, and they often have disproportionate political influences.  When poor children are more likely to get sick and die than children in wealthier neighborhoods just across town; when rural families are more likely to go without clean water; when ethnic and religious minorities, or people with disabilities, or people of different sexual orientations are discriminated against or can’t access education and opportunity  -- that holds all of us back.  And so, in all of our countries, we have to invest in the interventions that allow us to reach more people -- because no one should be left behind just because of where they live or what they look like.

Development is threatened by old attitudes, especially those that deny rights and opportunity to women.  In too many places, girls are less likely to be in school than boys.  Globally, women are less likely to have a job than men and are more likely to live in poverty.  I've said this before and I will keep repeating it -- one of the best indicators of whether a country will succeed is how it treats its women.  (Applause.)  When women have an education, when women have a job, their children are more likely to get an education, their families are healthier and more prosperous.  Their communities and countries do better, as well. So every nation -- all of our nations -- must invest in the education and health and skills of our women and girls.

And I have to say I do not have patience for the excuse of, well, we have our own ways of doing things.  (Applause.)  We understand that there is a long tradition in every society of discriminating against women.  But that's not an excuse for taking a new path in order to make sure that everyone in a society has opportunity.

Development is threatened if we do not recognize the incredible dynamism and opportunity of today’s Africa.  Hundreds of millions of Africans still struggle in the face of grinding poverty and deadly diseases, daily assaults on their lives and dignity.  But I visited Africa recently, and what I saw gave me hope and I know should give you hope, because that continent has made impressive gains in health and education.  It is one of the fastest-growing regions of the world, with a rising middle class.

And during my travels, Africans -- especially young Africans -- tell me they don’t just want aid, they want trade.  They want businesses.  They want investment.  So I call on the world to join us as we mobilize billions of dollars in new trade and investment and development in Africa -- and that includes Power Africa, our initiative to bring electricity and greater opportunity to more than 60 million African homes and businesses. If we get Africa fulfilling its full potential, that will help the entire global economy.  Everyone here will be helped.  It's not a zero-sum game.  We are invested in their success.  (Applause.)

Development is threatened by war.  This should be a simple proposition, but it bears repeating.  It is no coincidence that half of the people living in extreme poverty around the world live in places afflicted by chronic violence and conflict.  Today, some 60 million men, women and children have been forced from their homes, many by conflicts in the Middle East and in Africa.  These are humanitarian crises and refugees that we cannot ignore, and we have to deliver the urgent aid that is needed right now.  And those countries that can must do more to accommodate refugees, recognizing that those children are just like ours.  But our efforts must be matched by the hard work of diplomacy and reconciliation to end conflicts that so often tear societies apart.

And as I said earlier, war and conflict is more likely to arise where we have bad governance, and we have high inequality, and we have discrimination against minority groups and ethnic groups, and we have low educational levels.  So these things are all related.

And finally, development is threatened by climate change.  And I want to thank the Secretary General for the extraordinary leadership and work that he’s done on this issue.  (Applause.)

All of our countries will be affected by a changing climate. But the world’s poorest people will bear the heaviest burden -- from rising seas and more intense droughts, shortages of water and food.  We will be seeing climate change refugees.  As His Holiness Pope Francis has rightly implored the world, this is a moral calling.

In just two months, the world has an opportunity to unite around a strong global agreement.  I saw President Hollande walk in a few moments ago -- we are going to be converging in Paris.  With his leadership, and the leadership of every world leader, we need to establish the tools and financing to help developing nations embrace clean energy, adapt to climate change, and ensure that there’s not a false choice between economic development and the best practices that can save our planet.  We can do the same at the same time.  And the communities and lives of billions of people depend on the work that we do.  (Applause.)

Future generations of young people watching today and tomorrow will judge us by the choices we make in the months and years ahead.  And one of those young people is Eva Tolage.  Eva lives in a village in Tanzania.  She’s 15 years old, and she wrote me a letter.  Some of you know I get 10 letters a day, mostly from inside the United States, but sometimes international letters.  I get 40,000 a day, but I read 10.  (Laughter.)

And so Eva told me about her parents -- farmers who struggle to provide for their seven children.  And this young 15-year-old girl -- a girl the age of my daughters -- she dreams of going to college, but with little food to eat, she explained how it's hard for her sometimes to concentrate in school.  She explained that her house doesn’t have electricity, so it's hard for her to study at night.

It's not because her parents don't love her and don't have ambitions for her.  Her father works incredibly hard in the fields to pay for her education.  But they just need a little help.  “I won’t let him down,” Eva said.  “I’ll do whatever it takes,” she said in her letter.  And then, knowing that we would be gathered at this summit to help lift up families like hers, she asked me a question that could be asked of all of our nations -- “What will you commit to doing…?”  What will you do?

And there are billions of boys and girls just like Eva.  They’re just like our children.  They have as much talent and as much hope for the future.  And they’re willing to work hard, and their parents love them just as much as we love ours.  And just by the accident of birth, it's so much more difficult for them to achieve their dreams as it is for our children.  But in the eyes of God, they are the same children.  They’re just as important.

And for Eva, and all those just trying to survive another day in conditions that many of us can barely imagine, it can sometimes seem as if the world is blind to their struggles and their dreams.  And so today, I say to Eva and hundreds of millions -- billions -- like her:  We see you.  We hear you.  I've read your letter.  And we commit ourselves -- as nations, as one world -- to the urgent work that must be done.  To standing with families like Eva’s as they work and strive for a better life.  To ending the injustice of extreme poverty.  To upholding the inherent dignity of every human being.  Whatever it takes.  We can’t let them down.  And with your help, we won't.

Thank you very much.  (Applause.)

MRS. OBAMA:  Good evening, everyone!  (Applause.)  Let’s give it up for the amazing Beyoncé!  (Applause.)

I am thrilled to be here tonight.  (Applause.)  And I am honored to follow a woman whom I admire and adore; someone who believes as passionately as I do in the boundless promise of girls worldwide.  (Applause.)  And that’s really one of the reasons why I’m here tonight.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  I love you, Michelle!

MRS. OBAMA:  Because as I said -- I love you guys, too.  Love you.  (Applause.)  But as I said in the video that you saw earlier -- and this is important -- right now, 62 million girls are not in school.  And what’s important to know is that these are our girls.  They deserve the same chances to get an education as my daughters and your daughters and all of our children.  (Applause.)

And make no mistake about it, giving them that chance is at the core of our work to end global poverty.  It’s the only way to ensure that these girls can fulfill their potential, provide for their families and contribute fully to their countries.  And that’s why, if you haven’t done so already, here’s what I need you to do.  I need all of you to join our 62 Million Girls Campaign right now.

So here’s what I want you all to do.  I want you to tweet or Instagram a photo of yourself using the hashtag #62MillionGirls, and I want you to answer this one question:  What did I learn in school?  And then, here’s what I want you to do.  I want you to get everyone that you know to do the same thing, too.  All right?  Can we all do that?  (Applause.)  We’re going to do it right now?  (Applause.)  All right.  I’m glad to hear that.  Thank you guys so much.

And now, I have the pleasure of introducing someone who is an inspiration to me and to people around the world.  Our next speaker is an icon -- a global celebrity who has this huge spotlight that follows him everywhere he goes.  But he doesn’t use that spotlight for his own glory or just to further his own fame.  No, he takes that bright light and he shines it on the most urgent moral issues of our time –- issues that a lot of folks don’t know about, like how Poverty is Sexist, for example.  How it is -- it hits women and girls the hardest.

This man is a dear friend to me and my family.  He’s a role model for me and the President in our work on girls’ education and so many other global issues.  And I am so proud to introduce him tonight.

Ladies and gentlemen, join me in welcoming the one and only, Bono.  (Applause.)

Hi, everybody.  Today, September 26th, is “National Prescription Drug Take-Back Day.”  It’s a day where you can safely, conveniently, and responsibly dispose of expired and unwanted prescription drugs at collection sites in your community.

Here’s why this matters.  More Americans now die every year from drug overdoses than they do in car crashes.  And most of those deaths aren’t due to drugs like cocaine or heroin – but rather prescription drugs.  In 2013 alone, overdoses from prescription pain medications killed more than 16,000 Americans.  And most young people who begin misusing prescription drugs don’t buy them in some dark alley – they get them from the medicine cabinet.

If that’s not a good enough reason to participate in “National Prescription Drug Take-Back Day,” here’s another.  Many prescription pain medications belong to the same class of drugs as heroin.  In fact, four in five heroin users started out by misusing prescription drugs.  And over the course of just one year, between 2013 and 2014, we saw a 33% increase in the number of heroin users.

All of this takes a terrible toll on too many families, in too many communities, all across the country – big and small, urban and rural.  It strains law enforcement and treatment programs.  It costs all of us – in so many different ways.

That’s why, four years ago, my Administration unveiled a Prescription Drug Abuse Prevention Plan.  We’ve been partnering with communities to combat overdoses, and we’re seeing some promising results.  That’s why the budget I put forward this year would build on those efforts.  It would make critical investments in things like drug monitoring programs, equipping more first responders to save more lives, and expanding medication-assisted treatment programs – including in our prisons.

In fact, getting smarter about how we address substance use disorders is a vital part of reforming our criminal justice system.  Rather than keep spending billions of taxpayer dollars on needlessly long prison sentences for nonviolent drug offenders, we could save money and get better outcomes by getting treatment to those who need it.  And we could use some of the savings to make sure the brave men and women of law enforcement have the resources they need to go after drug kingpins and violent gangs, disrupt the flow of drugs into our country, and address the real threats to our communities.

With no other disease do we expect people to wait until they’re a danger to themselves or others to self-diagnose and seek treatment.  So we should approach abuse as an opportunity to intervene, not incarcerate.  And we all have a role to play here.  Parents, we have to understand how important it is to talk to our kids, and to safely store medications in the house.  The medical community has to be engaged, too – because better prescribing practices will make a difference.

And as a country, we have to keep working to reduce drug use through evidence-based treatment, prevention, and recovery.  Because research shows it works.  Courageous Americans show it works, every day.  That’s why the man I named to head the office of National Drug Control Policy – Michael Botticelli – is a man in long-term recovery himself.  He talks about it openly and honestly, precisely to strike down the shame and stigma that too often keep people from seeking care before it’s too late.

This is something I’ll be talking about more in the weeks to come, in communities across the country.  Because it’s a challenge we can solve if we work together.

Thanks, and have a great weekend.

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Well, good evening, everyone.  On behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to the White House.  (Applause.) President Xi, Madame Peng, members of the Chinese delegation -- once again, I want to welcome you as we honor the ties between our nations and our peoples.

In our visits to China, Michelle and I have experienced the traditions, the culture, the cuisine of a civilization that spans thousands of years.  And I understand that in China there’s a saying, “food is heaven.”  (Laughter.)  I dare not stand in the way of the divine, so I will be brief.  (Laughter.)

Today, President Xi and I agreed to expand our cooperation between our two nations.  I know that some -- in both countries and around the world -- question whether we can sustain the cooperation that we need, and the world needs.  I think we can draw encouragement from the ties that have long connected our peoples.

I think of the American airmen during the Second World War who went down over China.  Chinese villagers sheltered them, fed them, clothed them, and treated their wounds.  And decades later, one Chinese man said of the American he saved, “He is like the thumb on the hand…and I am like the finger…we are brothers together.”

I think of the ties that are forged every single day and that we’ve worked to expand in our work today.  American tourists in China, visiting the Forbidden City and the Great Wall.  Chinese tourists visiting our Statue of Liberty and Independence Hall.  Our students who cross the Pacific to learn from each other.  Our scientists who discover new treatments together.  Our health workers who fought Ebola together.

There will be times where there are differences between our two countries.  That's inevitable.  There will be times where our interests entirely overlap.  But what I think will be sustaining is the friendship between our peoples, the foundation of the ties between our nations.  And just as you say in China that a “sea accepts a hundred rivers,” our countries together are stronger when we accept the diversity and the views and contributions, and uphold the rights of all of our peoples.

And so I propose a toast -- to the people of China and the people of the United States.  May they work together, like fingers on the same hand, in friendship and in peace.  Gan Bei!  (Applause.)

PRESIDENT XI:  (As interpreted.)  Mr. President and Mrs. Obama, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends.  Good evening.  It gives me great pleasure to attend this grand dinner.  On behalf of the Chinese delegation and in the name of my wife and myself, I wish to extend heartfelt thanks to you, Mr. President, and to Mrs. Obama.

I also extend my cordial greetings to all the friends present, and through you, to all those across American society who take a strong interest in China-U.S. relationship, and support its growth.

My state visit to the United States is an unforgettable journey.  From the West Coast to the East Coast, what strikes me most is that the American people have a lot of goodwill toward the Chinese people.  And I hope much more can be accomplished through enhanced China-U.S. cooperation.  I want to assure you that such goodwill is fully reciprocated by the Chinese people.

Since yesterday evening, I have had three meetings with President Obama.  We had candid and in-depth exchange of views on China-U.S. relations, and the major issues that are vital to world peace and development.  And we reached broad and important agreement.  Our discussion has yielded many positive outcomes.

Thirty-six years ago, during his visit to the United States, Mr. Deng Xiaoping predicted that China-U.S. relations would make major progress under new, historical conditions.  Bracing against wind and rain, our relations have forged ahead and made extraordinary achievements in the past 30 years and more.  I'm convinced that the future of U.S.-China relations will be even more bright.

This morning, my wife and Mrs. Obama visited the panda house at the National Zoo.  She later told me that she was deeply touched by the American kids’ love of panda and their curiosity about and a fondness for China, the home of panda.  My wife said at the event, the seeds of China-U.S. friendship have already taken root in the hearts of the kids.  I cannot agree more with her.

Mr. President and Mrs. Obama, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends.  As an ancient Chinese saying goes, “Only those who take actions can achieve their goal.  Only those who stride forward can reach their destination.”  President Abraham Lincoln once said, “The best way to predict the future is to create it.”  Let us continue to respect and learn from each other, turn our blueprint into reality, and write in a creative way a new, historic chapter in China-U.S. relations.

In closing, let me propose a toast.  To the friendship between Chinese and American peoples; to the prosperity of China and the United States, and the happiness of our two peoples; and to the health of President and Mrs. Obama, and all the friends present.  Cheers!  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Forty-five years ago -- in June of 1970 -- a telegram arrived in upstate New York at the home of 18-year-old Marty Dempsey.  “Congratulations,” it read, “You are appointed to the West Point Class of 1974…” (Applause.)  Marty was honored.  But he had just finished high school, and he wasn’t entirely sure he wanted to head off to the Academy.  His mother, I’m told, thought different.  She urged him to “give it a try for the summer” -- which sounds like Beast Barracks meets sleep-away camp. (Laughter.)  Sound advice, with a little Irish charm, runs in the Dempsey family.

Over the decades that followed, he patrolled the Iron Curtain, commanded divisions on desert battlefields, and led America’s soldiers -- and more than a few times, he burst into song.  And over these last four years, Marty’s wisdom, his vision, and his character have helped lead the greatest fighting force the world has ever known.

Secretary Carter, Deputy Secretary Work, members of Congress and the Joint Chiefs, service secretaries, men and women of the Defense Department, our armed forces and our military families -- it is a deep honor to join you as we pay tribute to a singular leader for our military and our nation, and one of the finest men that I know -- General Martin Dempsey.  (Applause.)

A little over four years ago, I tapped Marty to serve as Chief of Staff of the Army.  We let him enjoy it -- for one day. Then, I asked him to be Chairman.  So let me just say, Marty, and more importantly, Deanie, this time I promise, no surprises tomorrow.  (Laughter.)

I chose Marty for these leadership roles because of his moral fiber and his deep commitment to American strength and values.  I chose him because of his vision for our military as a more versatile and responsive force.  I chose him because he had the steady hand we needed in this moment of transition -- as we tackle emerging threats and support so many of our troops as they transition to civilian life.  And I’ve seen Marty manage each of these challenges with integrity and foresight and care.  But perhaps most of all, I chose Marty because he’s a leader you can trust.

Marty, you’ve always given it to me straight.  I can't tell you how much I've appreciated your candor and your counsel.  And I’ve seen you build that trust not just with me, but across our military, with our troops and their families, with Congress and our allies abroad, and with the American people.

Today, thanks in no small measure to Marty’s leadership, America has reassured allies from Europe to the Asia Pacific.  We ended our combat mission in Afghanistan and brought America’s longest war to a responsible end.  We’ve forged new partnerships from South Asia to the Sahel to meet terrorist threats.  We’ve built a coalition that is combatting ISIL in Iraq and Syria.  We have bolstered our cyber defenses.  We helped halt the spread of Ebola in West Africa.

None of this would have been possible without Marty’s guidance and leadership.  And what makes it more remarkable is that he’s guided our forces through a time of reckless budget cuts.  With less than a week before Congress needs to pass a budget to keep the government open, let me just say now is not the time for games that lock in sequester.  It’s not good for our military readiness.  It’s not good for our troops.  It's not good for our family.  And it's not good for our country.  As Commander in Chief, I believe we should invest in America and in our national security, and not shortchange it.

Yet, even in these tough fiscal times, Marty has made sure we maintain our military superiority.  And no one can match our services because no one can match our service members -- our sons and daughters who he’s cared for like his own.  In them, he sees the West Point classmates of his youth.  He sees those he commanded.  He sees their families -- and, in them, he sees his own.

There’s Deanie, of course, Marty’s high school sweetheart, lifelong better half, whose grace and resilience and good cheer embodies the military spouses she fights so fiercely for.  Chris, Megan, and Caitlin -- who followed in their father’s footsteps to wear our nation’s cloth.  Marty’s mother, Sarah, who we thank for making him give the military a try “for the summer.”  (Laughter.) And there are his nine grandchildren, who we can be confident will mark this nation in so many positive ways in the future.  On behalf of the American people, I want to thank the entire Dempsey family for their service to our nation.  (Applause.)

Marty will be the first to tell you that he couldn’t have done his job without his outstanding Vice Chair.  And I, too, have depended on the advice and experience of Admiral Sandy Winnefeld.  Thank you, Sandy, for your outstanding service.  (Applause.)

In General Joe Dunford and General Paul Selva -- two of the most respected officers in our military -- we have tested leaders ready to carry on Marty and Sandy’s work.  I could not be prouder of them and the service they’ve already rendered this great nation.  And I could not be more confident in the advice and counsel that they’ll provide me.  Thank you to them.  Thank you, Ellyn.  Thank you so much for everything that you’ve done.  (Applause.)

Now, we're going to have a lot of work to do long after not just Marty is gone, but I'm gone from the stage.  There are always new threats, there are always new challenges in this ever-changing world.  We have to degrade and ultimately destroy ISIL, the remnants of al Qaeda, terror networks around the world.  We have to adapt our defenses for the 21st century.  We have to give our troops the support they need to meet their missions.  We have to make sure that our forces and our families receive the pay and the benefits and the quality of life that they have earned.  That is how we maintain a military that is second to none.  And I am confident that we are up to the task.

I’m told that on Marty’s desk there’s a box -- it’s a cigar box with 132 cards, each one with the name, picture and story of every one of the 132 soldiers who gave their lives under his command in Iraq.  And on top of the box are three words:  “Make It Matter.”  Make it matter.  And every morning, Marty places three of those cards in his pocket, so that every moment as Chairman -- every meeting, every trip, every decision, every troop review -- every moment of every day some of those fallen heroes are with him.

Those cards were with him a few years back when, for the first time as Chairman, Marty spoke to a group of military children who had lost a parent.  And that day, as he walked through the crowd -- some 600 Gold Star kids, young, so full of hope -- he began to think about their lives and how each of them would have to make their way without a father or a mother.  And Marty had planned to speak -- but he couldn’t.  So he did one of the things that he does best.  He began to sing.

And in that moment, the highest-ranking military leader in our nation forged a bond with those children -- boys and girls who, at such a tender age, had given up so much -- in a way that perhaps nobody else could.  And year after year, they’ve invited him back, because they know Marty Dempsey will always give them everything he has -- his voice, but even more, his full heart and soul.

This is the man we honor today.  A friend to so many troops and families across our military.  A patriot with a profound love for our country and those who sacrifice for it.  A trusted leader who in a time of great change “made it matter” all the time.

I am extraordinarily grateful to have had him by my side through the bulk of my presidency, and I am extraordinarily proud to call him my friend.

Marty, for your lifetime of extraordinary service, you have the deepest thanks of a grateful nation.  God bless you.  And God bless our men and women in uniform.

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Good afternoon, everybody.  Please have a seat.

I want to once again welcome President Xi back to the White House.  We first hosted him here three years ago when he was Vice President.  So this is our sixth meeting.  As a result of our efforts, our two nations are working together more closely across a broader range of critical issues -- and our cooperation is delivering results, for both our nations and the world.

Since I took office, American exports to China have nearly doubled and now support nearly one million American jobs.  Chinese investment in the United States helps support jobs across our country.  We partner to address global challenges, whether it's promoting nuclear security, combating piracy off the Horn of Africa, encouraging development and reconciliation in Afghanistan, and helping to end the Ebola epidemic in West Africa.

The historic climate change announcements that we made last year in Beijing have encouraged other countries to step up, as well, increasing the prospects for a stronger global agreement this year.  And as a member of the P5+1, China was critical to both the sanctions regime that brought Iran to the negotiating table and to the talks that produced the comprehensive deal to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.

So, greater prosperity and greater security -- that’s what American and Chinese cooperation can deliver.  That’s why I want to say again, the United States welcomes the rise of a China that is peaceful, stable, prosperous, and a responsible player in global affairs.  And I’m committed to expanding our cooperation, even as we address disagreements candidly and constructively.  That’s what President Xi and I have done on this visit -- during our working dinner last night and our meetings today.

Let me mention some specifics.  First, with respect to our economic relationship, we agreed to step up our work toward a high-standard bilateral investment treaty that would help level the playing field for American companies.  We’ve committed ourselves to a set of principles for trade in information technologies, including protection of innovation and intellectual property.  President Xi discussed his commitment to accelerate market reforms, avoid devaluing China’s currency, and have China play a greater role in upholding the rules-based system that underpins the global economy -- all of which are steps we very much support.

I raised once again our very serious concerns about growing cyber-threats to American companies and American citizens.  I indicated that it has to stop.  The United States government does not engage in cyber economic espionage for commercial gain.  And today, I can announce that our two countries have reached a common understanding on the way forward.  We’ve agreed that neither the U.S. or the Chinese government will conduct or knowingly support cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property, including trade secrets or other confidential business information for commercial advantage.  In addition, we’ll work together, and with other nations, to promote international rules of the road for appropriate conduct in cyberspace.

So this is progress.  But I have to insist that our work is not yet done.  I believe we can expand our cooperation in this area, even as the United States will continue to use all of the tools at our disposal to protect American companies, citizens and interests.

Second, I’m pleased that we’re building on last year’s climate commitments.  Last month, I issued our Clean Power Plan to help reduce America’s carbon emissions.  Today, I want to commend China for announcing that it will begin a national market-based cap-and-trade system to limit emissions from some of its largest sectors.  Last year, I announced our pledge of $3 billion to the Green Climate Fund to help developing nations deal with climate change.  Today, I welcome China’s major commitment of climate finance for the most vulnerable countries as well.

Our two countries are also putting forward our common vision for the ambitious climate change agreements that we seek in Paris.  When the world’s two largest economies, energy consumers and carbon emitters come together like this, then there’s no reason for other countries -- whether developed or developing -- to not do so as well.  And so this is another major step towards the global agreement the world needs to reach in two months’ time.

Third, with respect to security in the Asia Pacific, we agreed to new channels of communication to reduce the risks of miscalculations between our militaries.  The United States and China have reaffirmed our commitment to the complete and verifiable denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula in a peaceful manner.  We demand the full implementation of all relevant U.N.  Security Council resolutions and we will not accept North Korea as a nuclear weapon state.

We did have candid discussions on the East and South China Seas, and I reiterated the right of all countries to freedom of navigation and overflight and to unimpeded commerce.  As such, I indicated that the United States will continue to sail, fly and operate anywhere that international law allows.  I conveyed to President Xi our significant concerns over land reclamation, construction and the militarization of disputed areas, which makes it harder for countries in the region to resolve disagreements peacefully.  And I encouraged a resolution between claimants in these areas.  We are not a claimant; we just want to make sure that the rules of the road are upheld.

I reiterated my strong commitment, as well, to our One-China policy based on the Three Joint Communiqués and the Taiwan Relations Act.

Fourth, we’ve agreed to do more to promote international security.  At the United Nations in the coming days, the U.S. and China will bring countries together to promote development in Afghanistan, and we’ll work with our many partners to strengthen international peacekeeping.  We agree that all parties, including Iran, need to fully implement the nuclear deal, and that U.N. Security Council resolutions need to be fully enforced.

For the first time, the U.S. and China will also formally partner to promote global development.  Building on our efforts against Ebola, we’ll work to strengthen global health security. We’ll expand our joint efforts on humanitarian assistance, disaster response, agricultural development and food security.  And given China’s success in lifting hundreds of millions of people out of poverty -- which is one of the most remarkable achievements in human history -- we will help rally the world this weekend around new development goals, including our goal to end extreme poverty.

Fifth, we had a frank discussion about human rights, as we have in the past.  And I again affirmed America’s unwavering support for the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all people, including freedom of assembly and expression, freedom of the press and freedom of religion.  And I expressed in candid terms our strong view that preventing journalists, lawyers, NGOs and civil society groups from operating freely, or closing churches and denying ethnic minorities equal treatment are all problematic, in our view, and actually prevent China and its people from realizing its full potential.

Obviously, we recognize that there are real differences there.  And President Xi shared his views in terms of how he can move forward in a step-by-step way that preserves Chinese unity. So we expect that we’re going to continue to consult in these areas.

Even as we recognize Tibet as part of the People’s Republic of China, we continue to encourage Chinese authorities to preserve the religious and cultural identity of the Tibetan people, and to engage the Dalai Lama or his representatives.

Finally, we’re taking more steps to expand the connections between our two peoples.  We launch a new initiative to boost tourism between our countries in the coming months.  And just as children across China learn English, we’re starting a new initiative called “1 Million Strong” to encourage 1 million American students to learn Mandarin Chinese over the next five years.

Vice President Biden pointed out that two of his children are already on track -- two of his grandchildren, actually.  After all, if our countries are going to do more together around the world, then speaking each other’s language, truly understanding each other, is a good place to start.

So, overall, we’ve had an extremely productive meeting.  The particular work that has been done by our teams shows the extraordinary progress that we can make when we’re working together.  The candid conversations between President Xi and myself about areas of disagreement help us to understand each other better, to avoid misunderstandings or miscalculations, and pave the way potentially for further progress in those areas.

And, President Xi, I want to thank you again for expanding your commitment to cooperation between our nations.  I believe that it’s another reminder that as we work to narrow our differences, we can continue to advance our mutual interests for the benefit not only of our two peoples, but for the benefit of the world.

Thank you very much.

PRESIDENT XI:  (As interpreted.)  President Obama, dear friends from the press, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends  -- good morning.  It’s a great pleasure for me to meet with all of you together with President Obama.  Let me begin by thanking again President Obama and the U.S. government for the gracious hospitality and thoughtful arrangements and warm reception accorded to me and the Chinese delegation.  I also want to thank the American people for a warm welcome.

Yesterday and today, President Obama and I have had in-depth discussions on our respective domestic and foreign policies, important topics in bilateral relations, international and regional situation.  Our meetings are constructive and productive, and we have reached extensive and important consensus.

During the discussions, President Obama shared with me the domestic agenda and foreign policy priorities that he has been working on.  And I congratulated him on the progress that he has made in those areas.  I appreciate President Obama’s reaffirmation to me that the United States welcomes the rise of a peaceful, stable and prosperous China.  It supports China to play a bigger role in the international arena.  And the United States supports China’s reform at opening up.

I indicated to President Obama that China is making all-around efforts to deepen comprehensive reform, to build law-based governance, to enforce strict party discipline, so as to achieve the grand goal of building a society of initial prosperity in all respects.  The reform at opening up China will not stop.

China is firmly committed to the path of peaceful development.  It is committed to growing friendship and cooperative relations with all countries in the world.  To work with the United States to build the new model of major-country relationship without conflict, without confrontation, with mutual respect and win-win cooperation is a priority in China’s foreign policy.

We have spoken highly of the important progress made in China-U.S. relations since the Sunnylands summit in 2013.  And we have agreed to follow the consensus, expand the practical cooperation in various areas at the bilateral, regional, and global level, and manage differences and sensitive issues in constructive manner, and to advance the new model of major-country relationship between China and the United States.

We have agreed to deepen the practical cooperation in various areas at the bilateral scope.  We have agreed to vigorously push forward the bilateral investment treaty negotiation, speed up the pace of the work so as to achieve a high standard and balanced agreement.

We will expand mutually beneficial cooperation in energy, environmental protection, science and technology, aviation, infrastructure, agriculture, health and other areas.  The two governments and relevant agencies have signed many cooperation agreements, and our businesses have signed a series of commercial contact.

China and the United States are highly complementary economically and there is huge potential for further cooperation. For the United States to recognize China’s market economy status and ease export control on civilian high-tech items, it will help expand the mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries.

We have also had in-depth discussion on the current international, economic, and financial situation.  We have agreed to step up macroeconomic policy coordination and jointly promote global economic growth and financial stability.  To this end, we have established the mechanism on regular phone conversation on economic affairs between China and the United States which will be led by Vice Premier Wong Yang of China and Secretary of Treasury Jacob Lew.  They will stay in close communication on respective and global major economic issues.

We will also step up cooperation within G20, the World Bank, IMF, and other multilateral mechanisms.  I appreciate the U.S. supporting including the RMB into the IMF Special Drawing Rights when certain standards of the IMF are met.  And I also appreciate the U.S. commitment to implement the IMF quota and governance structure reform plan adopted at the G20 Summit in 2010 at an early date.

We have truly affirmed the new progress made in the confidence-building mechanisms between the two militaries.  We have agreed to step up exchanges in policy dialogues between the two militaries at all levels, hold more joint exercises and training.  We believe that terrorism is the common enemy of mankind, and we have agreed to step up multilateral and bilateral counterterrorism cooperation.  We have decided to increase communication and cooperation on counter-piracy, humanitarian assistance, and disaster reduction, and international peacekeeping operation, and also anti-corruption -- law enforcement cooperation to jointly fight against all kinds of transnational corruption crimes.

We have in-depth discussion on the situation of the Asia Pacific.  And we believe that China and the United States have extensive common interests in this region, and we should continue to deepen dialogue and cooperation on regional affairs and work together to promote active interactions and inclusive cooperation in the Asia Pacific, and work with countries in the Asia Pacific to promote peace, stability, and prosperity in this region.

China is committed to the path of peaceful development and a neighboring foreign policy characterized by good neighborliness and partnership with our neighbors.  Islands in the South China Sea since ancient times are China’s territory.  We have the right to uphold our own territorial sovereignty and lawful and legitimate maritime rights and interests.  We are committed to maintaining peace and stability in the South China Sea, managing differences and disputes through dialogue, and addressing disputes through negotiation, consultation, and peaceful manner, and exploring ways to achieve mutual benefit through cooperation.

We're committed to respecting and upholding the freedom of navigation and overflight that countries enjoy according to international law.  Relevant construction activities that China are undertaking in the island of South -- Nansha Islands do not target or impact any country, and China does not intend to pursue militarization.

China and the United States have a lot of common interests on the issue of South China Sea.  We both support peace and stability of the South China Sea.  The countries directly involved should address their dispute through negotiation, consultation and in peaceful means.  And we support freedom of navigation and overflight of countries according to international law and the management of differences through dialogue, and full and effective implementation of DOC and an early conclusion of the consultation of COC based on consensus-building.  We have agreed to maintain constructive communication on relevant issues.

China and the United States are two major cyber countries and we should strengthen dialogue and cooperation.  Confrontation and friction are not made by choice for both sides.  During my visit, competent authorities of both countries have reached important consensus on joint fight against cyber-crimes.  Both sides agree to step up crime cases, investigation assistance and information-sharing.  And both government will not be engaged in or knowingly support online theft of intellectual properties.  And we will explore the formulation of appropriate state, behavior and norms of the cyberspace.  And we will establish a high-level joint dialogue mechanism on the fight against cyber-crimes and related issues, and to establish hotline links.

Democracy and human rights are the common pursuit of mankind.  At the same time, we must recognize that countries have different historical processes and realities, and we need to respect people of all countries in the right to choose their own development path independently.

The Chinese people are seeking to realize the great renew of the Chinese nation, which is the Chinese history.  This process in essence is a process to achieve social equity and justice and advancing human rights.  China stands ready to, in the spirit of equality and mutual respect, conduct human rights dialogue with the United States, expand consensus, reduce differences, learn from each other, and progress together.

We have decided to continue to work together to tackle global challenges and provide more public good for the international community.  We, again, issued a joint announcement on climate change.  We have agreed to expand bilateral practical cooperation, strengthen coordination in multilateral negotiation, and work together to push the Paris climate change conference to produce important progress.

We have signed China-U.S. development cooperation MOU, and we have agreed to expand trilateral cooperation in Asia, Africa and other regions in terms of food security, public health system establishment, emergency response, and disaster reduction.  And we will maintain communication and coordination in implementing the post-2015 development agenda, promote a more equitable and balanced global development partnership, and help developing countries to achieve common development.

We have agreed to firmly uphold the international nuclear non-proliferation regime.  President Obama and I welcome the comprehensive Joint Plan of Action reached by relevant parties regarding the Iranian nuclear issue.  We reaffirmed that all relevant parties should undertake to implement the agreement fully, and work together to implement all relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions.

We reaffirm our commitment to realize the complete and verifiable denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula in peaceful way.  And we oppose any action that might cause tension in the Korean Peninsula or violate U.N. Security Council resolution.  We believe that the September the 19th joint statement of the Six-Party talks and relevant U.N. Security Council resolutions should be implemented in full, and all relevant parties should work together to firmly advance the denuclearization process of the Korean Peninsula, and maintain peace and stability so as to achieve enduring peace and stability in Northeast Asia.

The friendship between the two peoples is the most reliable foundation for long-term and stable development of China-U.S. relations and we should endeavor to solidify this important foundation.

We have decided to make 2016 a year of tourism for China and the United States.  In the next three years, we will fund a total of 50,000 students to study in each other’s countries.  We also welcome the United States’ decision to extend the 100,000 Strong initiative from universities to elementary and secondary schools, and by 2020, 1 million American students will learn Mandarin.

The door of friendship of China will continue to be open to the American people.  I also hope that the Chinese people could come to the United States for holidays or visits more easily and conveniently.

Mr. President, with 36 years of development, the interests of China and the United States are deeply interconnected, and we have greater responsibilities for world peace and human progress. There are broad areas that the two sides should and can work together.  The Chinese side stands ready to work with the United States to uphold a spirit of perseverance, and advance bilateral relations to seek further progress to the better benefits of the Chinese and American people and the people in the world.

Thank you.  (Applause.)

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Okay, we’re going to take a few questions.  We’re going to start with Margaret Talev of Bloomberg.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  President Obama and President Xi, I’d like to talk to you about cyber.  If I am an American business and I’m being hacked by Chinese pirates who are trying to steal my intellectual property, what firm assurances can you give us today that things are going to get better, and when?

President Obama, are you satisfied enough about the steps that China is taking to hold off on imposing any new sanctions to this end?  Or what do you still need to see?

And, President Xi, could we expect prosecutions of Chinese people and organizations who have hacked American businesses?  And if the U.S. did sanction anyone in China, would you respond with sanctions?

Also, everyone will kill me if I don’t ask -- what is your reaction to House Speaker John Boehner’s decision to resign?  (Laughter.)  Will this make life better or worse for you?  Are you concerned it will make it more difficult to avoid a government shutdown or raise the debt limit?  And do you think Boehner could just waive the rules and get immigration reform through before he leaves?  Thank you.

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  I’ll take them in order.  With respect to cyber, this has been a serious discussion between myself and President Xi since we first met in Sunnylands.  And the good news, from my perspective, is, is that in the lead-up to and then finalized during our meetings here today, we have, I think, made significant progress in agreeing to how our law enforcement and investigators are going to work together, how we’re going to exchange information, how we are going to go after individuals or entities who are engaging in cyber-crimes or cyber-attacks.  And we have jointly affirmed the principle that governments don't engage in cyber-espionage for commercial gain against companies. That all I consider to be progress.

What I’ve said to President Xi and what I say to the American people is the question now is, are words followed by actions.  And we will be watching carefully to make an assessment as to whether progress has been made in this area.

With respect to the various tools that we have to go after those who are attacking our companies or trying to extract trade secrets or data, we have traditional law enforcement tools, but
-- as I indicated a while back -- through executive action, I’ve also instituted the ability to impose sanctions on individuals or entities where we have proof that they’ve gone after U.S. companies or U.S. persons.

And we did not, at our level, have specific discussions of specific cases.  But I did indicate to President Xi that we will apply those and whatever other tools we have in our toolkit to go after cyber criminals, either retrospectively or prospectively.  Those are tools generally that are not directed at governments; they are directed at entities or individuals that we can identify.  And they’re not unique to China.  Those are tools that we’re going to be using for cyber criminals around the world.

And President Xi, during these discussions, indicated to me that, with 1.3 billion people, he can't guarantee the behavior of every single person on Chinese soil -- which I completely understand.  I can’t guarantee the actions of every single American.  What I can guarantee, though, and what I’m hoping President Xi will show me, is that we are not sponsoring these activities, and that when it comes to our attention that non-governmental entities or individuals are engaging in this stuff, that we take it seriously and we’re cooperating to enforce the law.

The last point I’ll make on the cyber issue -- because this is a global problem, and because, unlike some of the other areas of international cooperation, the rules in this area are not well developed, I think it’s going to very important for the United States and China, working with other nations and the United Nations and other -- and the private sector, to start developing an architecture to govern behavior in cyberspace that is enforceable and clear.

It doesn’t mean that we’re going it prevent every cyber-crime, but it does start to serve as a template whereby countries know what the rules are, they’re held accountable, and we’re able to jointly go after non-state actors in this area.

On John Boehner, I just heard the news as I was coming out of the meeting here, so it took me by surprise.  And I took the time prior to this press conference to call John directly and talk to him.

John Boehner is a good man.  He is a patriot.  He cares deeply about the House, an institution in which he served for a long time.  He cares about his constituents, and he cares about America.  We have obviously had a lot of disagreements, and politically we’re at different ends of the spectrum.  But I will tell you, he has always conducted himself with courtesy and civility with me.  He has kept his word when he made a commitment.  He is somebody who has been gracious.

And I think maybe most importantly, he’s somebody who understands that in government, in governance, you don't get 100 percent of what you want, but you have to work with people who you disagree with -- sometimes strongly -- in order to do the people’s business.

I’m not going to prejudge who the next Speaker will be.  That's something that will have to be worked through in the House.  And I will certainly reach out immediately to whoever is the new Speaker to see what his or her ideas are, and how we can make progress in the important issues that America faces.

The one thing I will say is that my hope is there’s a recognition on the part of the next Speaker -- something I think John understood, even though at times it was challenging to bring his caucus along -- that we can have significant differences on issues, but that doesn't mean you shut down the government.  That doesn't mean you risk the full faith and credit of the United States.  You don't invite potential financial crises.  You build roads and pass transportation bills.  And you do the basic work of governance that ensures that our military is operating and that our national parks are open and that our kids are learning.

And there’s no weakness in that.  That's what government is in our democracy.  You don't get what you want 100 percent of the time.  And so sometimes you take half a loaf; sometimes you take a quarter loaf.  And that's certainly something that I’ve learned here in this office.

So I’m looking forward to working with the next Speaker.  In the meantime, John is not going to leave for another 30 days, so hopefully he feels like getting as much stuff done as he possibly can.  And I’ll certainly be looking forward to working with him on that.

PRESIDENT XI:  (As interpreted.)  Madam reporter has raised the cybersecurity issue.  Indeed, at current, for the international community and for China and the United States, this is an issue all attach great importance to.  With President Obama and I have on many occasions -- and this is a long history -- have exchange of views on this.  I think it’s fair to say we’ve reached a lot of consensus on cybersecurity, including some new consensus.

Overall, the United States is the strongest country in terms of cyber strength.  China is the world’s biggest cyber country in terms of the number of Web users.  We have more than 600 million of netizens.  Our two sides should cooperate because cooperation will benefit both, and confrontation will lead to losses on both sides.  We are entirely able to carry out government department and expert levels of dialogue and exchanges to strengthen our cooperation in many respects and turn the cybersecurity between the two countries into a new growth source, rather than a point of confrontation between the two sides.

China strongly opposes and combats the theft of commercial secrets and other kinds of hacking attacks.  The U.S. side, if has concerns in this respect, we can, through the exiting channels, express those concerns.  The Chinese side will take seriously the U.S. provision of any information.  Now, we have already, and in the future, we will still, through the law enforcement authorities, maintain communication and coordination on this matter, and appropriately address them.

So, all in all, we have broad, common interest in the field of the cyber.  But we need to strengthen cooperation and avoid leading to confrontation.  And nor should we politicize this issue.  During my current visit, I think it’s fair to say that the two sides, concerning combatting cyber-crimes, have reached a lot of consensus.  Going forward, we need to, at an early date, reach further agreement on them and further put them on the ground.

Thank you.

Now I would like to propose for China’s Central Television reporter to raise a question.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President Xi.  I have a question for President Obama.  I have noticed that last night, during a meeting with President Xi Jinping, as well as at the welcoming ceremony this morning and the just-recently-made remarks, you’ve indicated that the U.S. welcomes the rise of a peaceful, stable and prosperous China, and supports China to play a bigger role on the international stage.  Would you please elaborate?  That for your office so far, what have you done to enable reaching this target?  And we are more interested for the remainder of the office, what will you do still further to reach that goal?  Thank you.

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Well, first of all, I think that the United States has provided a platform in the post-World War II era in which the Asia region has been able to stabilize, and the conditions in which China was able to grow so rapidly were maintained.  And we’re very proud of the work that we did after World War II to help rebuild both Asia and Europe; to help establish the international norms and rules that facilitated growing global trade and connections and travel and interactions; and to help maintain the peace.

Since I’ve been President, my goal has been to consistently engage with China in a way that is constructive, to manage our differences and to maximize opportunities for cooperation.  And I’ve repeatedly said that I believe it is in the interests of the United States to see China grow, to pull people out of poverty, to expand its markets, because a successful and stable and peaceful China can then serve as an effective partner with us on a range of international challenges.

Last night, during our discussions, I mentioned to President Xi that as powerful as the United States is, the nature of the biggest challenges we face -- things like climate change, or terrorism, or pandemic, or refugees -- those are not issues that any one nation alone can solve.  And we recognize, because of our strength and the size of our economy and the excellence of our military, that we can play a special role and carry a larger burden, but we can’t do it alone.  China, despite its size, still has development challenges of its own, so it can’t solve these problems alone.  We’ve got to work together.  We’ve got to cooperate.

And I think that can happen as long as we continue to recognize that there’s a difference between friendly competition -- which we have with some of our closest friends and allies like Great Britain or Germany -- and competition that tilts the playing field unfairly in one direction or another.  That’s typically where tensions between our countries arise, is our desire to uphold international norms and rules -- even as we recognize that we need to update some of these international institutions to reflect China’s growth and strength and power.

So President Xi mentioned IMF reform, quota reform.  That’s an area where we fully support and want to implement a greater voice and vote for China in that institution, reflective of its strength.  The same will be true when we go up to the United Nations on peacekeeping initiatives.  China is able to project its capabilities in a way that can be extremely helpful in reducing conflict.

And in all of those issues, as well as education, science, technology, we think that the opportunities for cooperation are there as long as there’s reciprocity, transparency, and fairness in the relationship.

And what I have said in the past to President Xi is, is that given China’s size, we recognize there’s still a lot of development to be done and a lot of poverty inside of China, but we can't treat China as if it’s still a very poor, developing country, as it might have been 50 years ago.  It is now a powerhouse.  And that means it’s got responsibilities and expectations in terms of helping to uphold international rules that might not have existed before.

And that is something China should welcome.  That's part of the deal of being on the world stage when you're a big country, is you've got more to do.  My gray hair testifies to that.  (Laughter.)

Julie Davis.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I know you said you didn't want to prejudge the next Speaker.  But I wonder if you could tell us what Speaker Boehner’s resignation today tells you about the Republican Party and your ability to work with Congress in the remainder of your term, particularly since it’s coming at a time when you're trying to negotiate to avert a government shutdown.  Does this make that easier or harder?  And do you think that you’ll be able to move forward with the Congress on priorities like the budget, Planned Parenthood, immigration that you weren’t able to address with Speaker Boehner in his position?

And for President Xi, you've experienced an economic downturn in your country with the stock market crisis.  And investors, globally, have been concerned about some of the actions you've taken to intervene in the stock market and with the currency exchange rate.  I wonder if you could stay what you told President Obama, or what you can say today, to restore confidence that these interventions will not have spillover effects into the global economy in the future.  Thank you.

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Well, Julie, I meant what I said.  I’m not going to prejudge how I’ll be able to work with the next Speaker because I don't know who the next Speaker is.  And I suspect that there’s going to be a lot of debate inside the Republican caucus about who they want to lead them and in what direction.

It’s not as if there’s been a multitude of areas where the House Republican caucus has sought cooperation previously, so I don't necessarily think that there’s going to be a big shift.  I do think that Speaker Boehner sometimes had a tough position because there were members in his caucus who saw compromise of any sort as weakness or betrayal.  And when you have divided government, when you have a democracy, compromise is necessary.  And I think Speaker Boehner sometimes had difficulty persuading members of his caucus of that.

Hopefully they’ve learned some lessons from 2011, the last time that they sought to introduce a non-budget item into the budget discussions.  At that it was Obamacare, and they were going to shut down the government for that purpose.  It ended up really hurting the economy, slowing it down, and caused a lot of hardship and a lot of problems for a lot of people.

Because it turns out, actually, government provides a lot of vital services.  Our military provides us protection.  Our agencies keep our air clean and our water clean.  And our people every single day are helping to respond to emergencies, and helping families get Social Security checks, and helping them deal with an ailing parent.  And when you insist that unless I get my way on this one particular issue I’m going to shut down all those services -- and, by the way, leave a whole lot of really hardworking people without paychecks -- that doesn’t just hurt the economy; that hurts  -- in the abstract, it hurts particular families.

And as I recall, it wasn’t particularly good for the reputation of the Republican Party either.

So, hopefully, some lessons will be drawn there.  I expect we’ll continue to have significant fights around issues like Planned Parenthood, and significant fights around issues like immigration.  But perhaps the visit by the Holy Father to Congress may have changed hearts and minds.  I know that Speaker Boehner was deeply moved by his encounter with Pope Francis.  I want to congratulate him, by the way, on facilitating that historic visit.  I know it meant a lot to John and his family.

And I would just ask members to really reflect on what His Holiness said -- not in the particulars, but in the general proposition that we should be open to each other, we should not demonize each other, we should not assume that we have a monopoly on the truth or on what’s right, that we listen to each other and show each other respect, and that we show regard for the most vulnerable in our society.

It’s not a particularly political message, but I think it’s a good one -- at a moment when, in our politics, so often the only way you get on the news is if you’re really rude or you say really obnoxious things about people, or you insist that other people’s points of views are demonic and evil, and leave no room at all for the possibilities of compromise.

I’d like to think that that spirit will continue to permeate Washington for some time to come.  And I know that, in his heart, that’s who John Boehner was.  It was sometimes hard to execute.  But as I said, he is a good man and a reasonable man.  And he’s going to be around for a while, and I hope that we can get some things done before he steps down.

PRESIDENT XI:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you, madam reporter, for your interest in China’s economy.  China is now committed to improving the marketized renminbi exchange rate formation regime. Since 2005, we adopted the exchange rate reform.  By June this year, the renminbi has risen in value by more than 35 percent with the U.S. dollar.  Last month -- in fact, we are continuing to make reforms to the renminbi exchange rate central parity quotation regime.  That increased the intensity for the markets to determine the exchange rate of renminbi.

Due to the influence of factors, such as the previous strengthening of the U.S. dollar and somewhat turbulence on the financial market, the renminbi exchange rate after reform has experienced a certain degree of fluctuation.  However, there is no basis for the renminbi to have a devaluation in the long run. At present, the exchange rate between renminbi and U.S. dollars is moving toward stability.  Going forward, China will further improve the marketization and formation regime of renminbi exchange rate, maintain the normal fluctuation of the exchange rate, and maintain the basic stability of renminbi at an adaptive and equilibrium level.

At present, China is also under increasing pressure of economic downturn and some fluctuations on the stock market.  Challenges and difficulties have obviously increased.  But what we are taking is proactive fiscal policy and prudent monetary policy.  And we describe them as measures to stabilize growth, promote reform, restructuring, promote people’s livelihood, and fend off risks.

By comprehensively taking measures, we managed to maintain a 7 percent of growth rate in the first half of this year.  Last year, we achieved a 7.3 percent of growth rate.  And compared with the aggregate economic strength, the increase -- the absolute increase of the economy is equivalent to the size of a middle-sized economy.

So for the first half of this year, our growth order is 7 percent, and for the whole year, I think it is expected at the same level.  The Chinese economy maintaining a mid-to-high growth of rate.  This is a fundamental that has not changed, because we are equipped with several conditions.

First of all, our people’s income are still at a middle income period.  When countries are developing, this is a period where there will be further development.  At present, our per capita GDP only stands at $700-$800 U.S. dollars, and that is very much behind the United States.  There is big room for ascendency and for increase.  And we are now doing what we call as the full reforms or the full processes, which is in formatization -- a new type of industrialization, urbanization, and the agricultural modernization.

Take the urbanization as an example.  Every year, it will increase by 2 percent.  Now our urbanization ratio is 53 percent, and it is expected to grow by 2 percent.  And that is equivalent to something like 10 million people moving from rural areas to the urban areas.  At the same time, we’re also should not let the rural areas be backward.  We need to develop the rural areas. Through the Internet Plus and other policies our industrialization and our urbanization will have a frog-leap development.

Now, the Chinese economy -- turning to a slower growth rate and turning it from a speed-based growth to quality-based growth, and we are moving from an export-driven and investment-driven economy into an economy driven by expanded consumption and domestic demand.  We call this as a new normal of the Chinese economy.  And I’m confident that going forward, China will surely, for all of us, for everybody, provide a healthy growth that strengthens confidence.

Thank you.  And now I would like to remind reporter from the People’s Daily of China to raise questions.

Q    Thank you, President Xi.  I have a question -- to seek guidance.  Now, some people in America believe that China’s growth might challenge the U.S. leading position in the world.  My question for President Xi is, what is your view on the current United States and what is China’s U.S. policy?  Thank you.

PRESIDENT XI:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you.  In my view, the U.S. in economic, in military, has remarkable strength.  And other countries in the world are also developing.  Still, the U.S. has un-compared advantages and strengths.

The Cold War has long ended.  Today’s world has entered into an era of economic globalization where countries are interdependent upon each other.  People should move ahead with the times, and give up on the old concepts of “you lose, I win” or “zero-sum game,” and establish a new concept of peaceful development and willing cooperation.

If China develops well, it will benefit the whole world and benefit the United States.  If the U.S. develops well, it will also benefit the world and China.

China’s policy towards the U.S. is consistent and transparent.  As the world’s biggest developing country and biggest developed countries, and as the world’s two biggest economies, our two sides have broad and common interests on world peace and human progress, and shoulder important and common responsibilities, although our two sides also have certain differences.  But the common interests of the two countries far outweigh those differences.

It is also my sincere hope that the two sides of China and the U.S. will proceed from the fundamental interests of the two peoples and world people, make joint efforts to build a new model of major-country relations between two countries, and realize non-conflict, non-confrontation, mutual respect and cooperation.

That should serve as a direction where both sides should strive unswervingly.  China is the current international system’s builder, contributor, and developer, and participant, and also beneficiary.  We are willing to work with all other countries to firmly defend the fruits of victory of the Second World War, and the existing international system, centered on the -- and at the same time, promote them to developing a more just and equitable direction.

China has raised the One Belt One Road initiative and proposed to establish the AIIB, et cetera.  And all of their aims are to expand mutual and beneficial cooperation with other countries and realize common development.  These initiatives are open, transparent, inclusive.  They are consistent in serving the interests of the U.S. and other countries’ interest.  And we will come -- the U.S. and other parties -- to actively participate in them.

Thank you.

MRS. OBAMA:  Well, good morning, everyone.  I am so thrilled to be here today as we get ready to name the new baby panda.  (Applause.)  It’s very exciting.

I want to start by thanking my dear friend, Madame Peng, for joining us.  And thank you once again for the warmth and hospitality that you showed my family when we visited China earlier [last] year.  We are still talking about our trip, and because of your graciousness and openness, it made our time in your country even more special.  So I’m honored to welcome you here.

I also want to thank Secretary Skorton for his dedication.  We welcome you on board.  Thank you for your leadership, and thank you for that wonderful introduction.  I look forward to working with you in the years to come.

I also want to recognize Dennis Kelly, as well, for his leadership.  The National Zoo has been a favorite of my family.  My daughter, Malia, has done several internships here and comes here often, even though you don’t know it.  (Laughter.)  She is a fan.  She can now operate under cover, so she comes and goes and you don’t even know it.  (Laughter.)  But we are grateful for everything you do to make this a national treasure.

And of course, I want to recognize the scientists, the staff, the team here -- to our dear friend David for his contributions, for making this day possible.

And finally, I want to recognize all of the fabulous young people we have here from the Yu Ying School.  Yay to you all!  Yay to you guys!  (Applause.)  Thank you so much for that very special song.  Very good rhythm, too.  (Laughter.)  It’s very good.

I had so much fun visiting your school last year before my trip to China.  I don’t think you -- maybe you guys were too young to know that I came to your school.  You didn’t know that?  I came and you all gave me advice on what to do when I went to China, and I took your advice.  You told me what food to eat, where to stay, where not to go, how to carry my money so it would be safe -- all those kind of things.  You gave me wonderful tips.  And I was so excited to meet with students in China during my visit to tell them about all of you and about our culture and our values here in America.

And that’s really one of the reasons why we’re here today.  We’re here because we want young people like you to keep doing what you’re doing, and that is connecting with young people in other cultures, exposing yourself to new cultures, learning new languages.  And you all have done it so well.  It just goes to show, when you start out early, you can learn anything.

That’s why President Obama and President Xi just announced the One Million Strong initiative to [teach] one million students here in the U.S. to speak Mandarin Chinese by the year 2020, just like all of you are doing.  So you guys are leaders in this, and we want other young people in this country to follow your example.

We want young people like you to be global citizens.  Do you all know what that means?  We want you to know what’s happening not just in your neighborhood, or in your house, or in your school, or in your community, but we want you to know what’s going on around the world, right?  Yes.

And also, I want you all to remember and other young people to remember that you don’t have to get on a plane to be a citizen of the world.  Nowadays, you can just get on the Internet, right?  Within seconds, you can be transported just about anywhere in the world, just with the click of a mouse or tap of a button -- or whatever they do these days.  (Laughter.)  You can talk to people on every continent.  You can learn about thousands of different cultures.

And that’s really what we’re doing this week as we host President Xi and Madame Peng.  What we do when we do these wonderful state visits is that we get to share ideas with each other.  We get to learn about each other, up close and personal.  And we get to strengthen the connections between all the people in our two countries.

And here’s the very special thing that I want young people like you to know:  You all are such an important part of that community-building that we do.  Do you realize that?  You’re the best ambassadors that we have, not just right now, but for decades to come.  When you go on to become interpreters and world leaders yourselves, and world travelers, and thinkers, and scientists, you’re going to travel the world, and you’re going to be so comfortable because you’ll know other languages and other cultures.

That’s what we want for every child, not just in this country, but around the world.  You’re so happy aren’t you?  (Laughter.)  You should be.  And you should be proud of yourself, sweetie, because we are so proud of all of you, okay, babe?

So I want to thank you all, all of you for joining us today.  And with that, it is now my pleasure and my honor to introduce my friend, Madame Peng.  (Applause.)

MADAME PENG:  (As interpreted.)  Madame Michelle Obama, Secretary Skorton, Director Kelly, ladies and gentlemen, dear boys and girls, a very good morning to you.

It is such a great privilege for me to be here with Madame Michelle Obama to name the panda cub.  The birth given by its mother, Mei Xiang, is yet another success in a conservation cooperation between China and the United States on giant pandas.  So I wish to express my sincere congratulations to the Chinese and American research teams.

I am delighted to learn that the American public has great affection towards the giant pandas.  Ever since Ling-Ling and Hsing-Hsing traveled across the ocean to arrive at the National Zoo here in Washington, D.C. in 1972, the American public has expressed their affection towards those giant pandas in different ways.

I know that the pictures of giant pandas are printed on some of the banners here at the National Zoo.  And on the fare card of the D.C. Metro, we can sometimes see the picture of the giant pandas eating the bamboo.  (Laughter.)  I truly hope to own some of these fare cards as a souvenir.  (Laughter.)

I know that last month, Mei Xiang once again gave birth to a panda cub.  And I know that millions of Americans watched the process of the birth on the Panda Cam.  And it was such a regret that I didn't get to see it on Panda Cam, but I know that many Americans celebrated that day.  So I envy you so much.  (Laughter.)

Michelle once said that the giant panda exemplifies the common bond between China and the United States.  That's a lot of responsibility for a cute animal like the giant pandas.  (Laughter.)  But she is certain that they are up to the task.  Well, I agree with her very much.

You see, we do need more bonds to bring the people of our two countries ever more closer, and I think the giant pandas are exactly one of those bonds that we can celebrate to achieve that goal.

Mei Xiang’s panda cub is absolutely adorable, and Michelle and I have already chosen a nice name for it.  And I’m certain that it will bring it good luck, and hopefully it will grow up happily together with that name.  I expect and I am confident that the giant pandas will continue to serve as an important link between our peoples, and it will bring greater joy and friendship to the people of our two countries, especially the kids of China and the United States.  Thank you.  Thank you all so much.  (Applause.)

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Good morning.  Ni hao.  President Xi, Madame Peng, members of the Chinese delegation, on behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to the White House.  And on behalf of the American people, welcome to the United States.

Across more than two centuries, Americans and Chinese have traded together.  Chinese immigrants helped build our railroads and our great cities.  The United States is enriched by millions of proud Chinese Americans, including those who join us here this morning.  So this visit reflects a history of friendship and cooperation between our two great peoples.

This is also an opportunity for Michelle and me to reciprocate the hospitality shown to us during our visits to China.  Michelle, our daughters and my mother-in-law were warmly welcomed last year as they traveled across the country, as was I when I made a state visit to Beijing.  And I’m told that news about Michelle’s trip got some one billion views online.  (Laughter.)  President Xi, I believe that we are both accustomed to being outshone by our dynamic spouses.  (Laughter.)

As I have said many times, the United States welcomes the rise of a China that is stable, prosperous and peaceful -- because that benefits us all.  Our work together -- to increase our trade, boost the global economy, fight climate change and prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon -- shows that when the United States and China work together, it makes our nations and the world more prosperous and more secure.

Even as our nations cooperate, I believe -- and I know you agree -- that we must address our differences candidly.  The United States will always speak out on behalf of fundamental truths.  We believe that nations are more successful and the world makes more progress when our companies compete on a level playing field, when disputes are resolved peacefully, and when the universal human rights of all people are upheld.

During our multiple visits together, I believe that we have made significant progress in enhancing understanding between our two nations and laying the foundation for continued cooperation.
President Xi, you’ve spoken of your vision of China’s peaceful development.  During my visit to Beijing last year, you said that there were “wide areas” where our two nations “need to and can cooperate with each other.”  And I fully agree.

In fact, I believe that our two great nations, if we work together, have an unmatched ability to shape the course of the century ahead.  President Xi, Madame Peng, members of the Chinese delegation -- in that spirit, with the eyes and hopes of the world upon us, welcome to the United States of America.  (Applause.)

PRESIDENT XI:  (As interpreted.)  Mr. President, Mrs. Obama, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends -- in this golden season of autumn, my wife and I are very pleased to come to the beautiful city of Washington, D.C.

At the outset, I wish to thank you, Mr. President, for your kind invitation and gracious hospitality.  I also wish to convey to the American people the warm regards and the best wishes of over 1.3 billion Chinese people.

China and the United States are both great nations.  The Chinese and American people are two great peoples.  Since we established diplomatic relations 36 years ago, China-U.S. relations have forged ahead despite twists and turns, and have made historic advances.

At our Sunnylands meeting in the summer of 2013, President Obama and I made the strategic decision of building a new model of major-country relations.  More than two years have passed, and we have made important progress in various areas of exchange and cooperation.  This has been welcomed by people of our two countries and the world at large.

Working together, China and the United States can make a greater impact than our individual efforts.  To grow our relationship under the new conditions, we must adapt to the changing times and to seize the positive momentum.  I come to the United States this time to promote peace and advance cooperation.  We would like to work with the U.S. side to make great advances in our relationship, and deliver more benefits to people of our two countries and the whole world.

We must uphold the right direction of building a new model of major-country relations; make sure our relationship is defined by peace, respect and cooperation; and see to it that it keeps moving forward on the soundtrack of steady growth.  We must enhance strategic trust and mutual understanding, respect each other’s interests and concerns, be broad-minded about our differences and disagreements, and to strengthen our people’s confidence in China-U.S. friendship and cooperation.

We must pursue win-win cooperation, update the model, and broaden the scope of our collaboration, and improve the well-being of people of our two countries and the world through concrete actions and outcomes of cooperation.  We must enhance friendship and promote interactions between our people, encourage our two societies to meet each other halfway, and cement the social foundation of China-U.S. relations.

We must promote world peace and development, improve coordination on major international and regional issues, make concerted efforts to address global challenges, and work with other nations to build a better world.

Thirty years ago, during my first visit to the United States, I was hosted by an American family in Muscatine, Iowa.  My hosts were so warm, sincere, and friendly.  We had cordial conversations and we hugged tightly when we had to say goodbye. To this day, those moments are still fresh in my memory.

Three years ago, I went back to Muscatine, and had a reunion with my old friends there.  They said to me, friendship is a big business.  Well, from these old friends, and from many other American friends, I can feel firsthand the genuine friendship between the Chinese and American people.  We do share each other’s feelings.  And this gives me every confidence about the future of our relations.

Mr. President, and Mrs. Obama, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, success comes with dedicated efforts.  China-U.S. relations have reached a new starting point in the 21st century. For further growth of our relations, we have no choice but to seek win-win cooperation.  Let us work hand-in-hand with great resolve to write a new chapter in China-U.S. relations.

Thank you.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Last year, as Ebola spread in West Africa and I said that fighting this disease was more than a national security priority -- it was a critical example of American leadership.  These professionals from the U.S. Public Health Service were some of the Americans on the frontlines of that effort.  And before you came in, I had the opportunity to award them with the Presidential Unit Citation.

Now, understand that this corps of public health professionals are on the frontlines all the time.  And when you think of some of the most difficult, challenging tragedies or public health challenges that we’ve experienced over the last several decades, these are the folks who have been there from the start.  After 9/11, after hurricanes, after Sandy Hook, after Deepwater Horizon or the Boston Marathon bombing, they come in to help support, advise and oftentimes provide direct treatment in some of the most difficult situations imaginable.

But this was a unique deployment by this unit.  Like so many others, they signed up to leave their loved ones and head straight into the heart of the Ebola epidemic, understanding that there were significant risks that they themselves would be confronting as a consequence of helping others.  Thanks to their skill, thanks to their courage and their dedication, they not only helped to keep the American people safe; they led a global response.  It was not until they arrived that other countries were confident that they could send their own health workers in, because they knew that this outstanding group of individuals and health professionals were there on the job and would provide them the kind of support that could make their own efforts safe.

We’re not yet at absolute zero when it comes to this Ebola epidemic that took place in West Africa, but we have turned the tide on the epidemic.  The cases we now see are much more sporadic and we have, as a consequence of the work that these individuals started, started to build the kind of public health infrastructure in many of these countries that can prevent an outbreak in the future.

I want to thank Secretary Sylvia Burwell, Surgeon General Murthy, because they were critical in helping to move us to the next phase of the fight -- transitioning from a military response to a civilian response.  We’re also now better prepared for disease outbreaks like Ebola here at home.  Our health care professionals are better trained.  Our screening processes have improved.  Our hospitals are more capable with new protocols and new protective gear.  None of this progress could have been made without America’s public servants like these.

The troops who supported the global response -- the CDC experts tracking cases, the HHS scientists testing vaccines, the USAID workers and PHS doctors and workers who served directly in the field -- all of these Americans, not just the ones in this room but thousands of the public health service individuals, the thousands more who helped support them, they made this progress possible.

His Holiness Pope Francis spoke today in Congress about the need for us to apply the Golden Rule and to have a sense of morality and common humanity at the center of our government.  Well, these are individuals who represent that spirit of that kind of selflessness that ends up helping the most vulnerable, the poorest, the people who are least capable of fending for themselves against invisible killers like Ebola.  So I’m extraordinarily grateful to all of them.

It is a useful occasion for me to note that organizations like the Public Health Services Commissioned Corps need support from Congress in order to continue to excel at their mission.  And so I hope that Congress chooses to keep our government open and operating so that heroes like this can keep working to extinguish disease and ignite hope wherever it is needed most.  That’s what America does.  That’s what these individuals represent.  That’s why I could not be more incredibly proud of them, proud of the American people who support them.

Thank you.  Good job.

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Good morning.

AUDIENCE:  Good morning!  (Applause.)

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  What a beautiful day the Lord has made.  Holy Father, on behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to the White House.  (Applause.)  I should explain that our backyard is not typically this crowded -- (laughter) -- but the size and spirit of today’s gathering is just a small reflection of the deep devotion of some 70 million American Catholics.  (Applause.)  It reflects, as well, the way that your message of love and hope has inspired so many people across our nation and around the world.  So on behalf of the American people, it is my great honor and privilege to welcome you to the United States of America.  (Applause.)

Today, we mark many firsts.  Your Holiness, you have been celebrated as the first Pope from the Americas.  (Applause.) This is your first visit to the United States.  (Applause.)  And you are also the first pontiff to share an encyclical through a Twitter account.  (Laughter.)

Holy Father, your visit not only allows us, in some small way, to reciprocate the extraordinary hospitality that you extended to me at the Vatican last year.  It also reveals how much all Americans, from every background and every faith, value the role that the Catholic Church plays in strengthening America.  (Applause.)  From my time working in impoverished neighborhoods with the Catholic Church in Chicago, to my travels as President, I’ve seen firsthand how, every single day, Catholic communities, priests, nuns, laity are feeding the hungry, healing the sick, sheltering the homeless, educating our children, and fortifying the faith that sustains so many.

And what is true in America is true around the world.  From the busy streets of Buenos Aires to the remote villages in Kenya, Catholic organizations serve the poor, minister to prisoners, build schools, build homes, operate orphanages and hospitals.  And just as the Church has stood with those struggling to break the chains of poverty, the Church so often has given voice and hope to those seeking to break the chains of violence and oppression.

And yet, I believe the excitement around your visit, Holy Father, must be attributed not only to your role as Pope, but to your unique qualities as a person.  (Applause.)  In your humility, your embrace of simplicity, in the gentleness of your words and the generosity of your spirit, we see a living example of Jesus’ teachings, a leader whose moral authority comes not just through words but also through deeds.  (Applause.)

You call on all of us, Catholic and non-Catholic alike, to put the “least of these” at the center of our concerns.  You remind us that in the eyes of God our measure as individuals, and our measure as a society, is not determined by wealth or power or station or celebrity, but by how well we hew to Scripture’s call to lift up the poor and the marginalized -- (applause) -- to stand up for justice and against inequality, and to ensure that every human being is able to live in dignity –- because we are all made in the image of God.  (Applause.)

You remind us that “the Lord’s most powerful message” is mercy.  And that means welcoming the stranger with empathy and a truly open heart –- (applause) -- from the refugee who flees war-torn lands to the immigrant who leaves home in search of a better life.  (Applause.)  It means showing compassion and love for the marginalized and the outcast, to those who have suffered, and those who have caused suffering and seek redemption.  You remind us of the costs of war, particularly on the powerless and defenseless, and urge us toward the imperative of peace.  (Applause.)

Holy Father, we are grateful for your invaluable support of our new beginning with the Cuban people -- (applause) -- which holds out the promise of better relations between our countries, greater cooperation across our hemisphere, and a better life for the Cuban people.  We thank you for your passionate voice against the deadly conflicts that ravage the lives of so many men, women and children, and your call for nations to resist the sirens of war and resolve disputes through diplomacy.

You remind us that people are only truly free when they can practice their faith freely.  (Applause.)  Here in the United States, we cherish religious liberty.  It was the basis for so much of what brought us together.  And here in the United States, we cherish our religious liberty, but around the world, at this very moment, children of God, including Christians, are targeted and even killed because of their faith.  Believers are prevented from gathering at their places of worship.  The faithful are imprisoned, and churches are destroyed.  So we stand with you in defense of religious freedom and interfaith dialogue, knowing that people everywhere must be able to live out their faith free from fear and free from intimidation.  (Applause.)

And, Holy Father, you remind us that we have a sacred obligation to protect our planet, God’s magnificent gift to us.  (Applause.)  We support your call to all world leaders to support the communities most vulnerable to changing climate, and to come together to preserve our precious world for future generations.  (Applause.)

Your Holiness, in your words and deeds, you set a profound moral example.  And in these gentle but firm reminders of our obligations to God and to one another, you are shaking us out of complacency.  All of us may, at times, experience discomfort when we contemplate the distance between how we lead our daily lives and what we know to be true, what we know to be right.  But I believe such discomfort is a blessing, for it points to something better.  You shake our conscience from slumber; you call on us to rejoice in Good News, and give us confidence that we can come together in humility and service, and pursue a world that is more loving, more just, and more free.  Here at home and around the world, may our generation heed your call to “never remain on the sidelines of this march of living hope.”

For that great gift of hope, Holy Father, we thank you, and welcome you, with joy and gratitude, to the United States of America.  (Applause.)

HIS HOLINESS POPE FRANCIS:  Good morning.

AUDIENCE:  Good morning!

HIS HOLINESS POPE FRANCIS:  Mr. President, I am deeply grateful for your welcome in the name of the all Americans.  As a son of an immigrant family, I am happy to be a guest in this country, which was largely built by such families.  (Applause.)

I look forward to these days of encounter and dialogue in which I hope to listen to and share many of the hopes and dreams of the American people.  During my visit, I will have the honor of addressing Congress, where I hope, as a brother of this country, to offer words of encouragement to those called to guide the nation’s political future in fidelity to its founding principles.  I will also travel to Philadelphia for the eighth World Meeting of Families to celebrate and support the institutions of marriage and the family at this critical moment in the history of our civilization.  (Applause.)

Mr. President, together with their fellow citizens, American Catholics are committed to building a society which is truly tolerant and inclusive, to safeguarding the rights of individuals and communities, and to rejecting every form of unjust discrimination.  (Applause.)  With countless other people of good will, they are likewise concerned that efforts to build a just and wisely ordered society respect their deepest concerns and the right to religious liberty.  (Applause.)  That freedom reminds one of America’s most precious possessions.  And, as my brothers, the United States Bishops, have reminded us, all are called to be vigilant, precisely as good citizens, to preserve and defend that freedom from everything that would threaten or compromise it.  (Applause.)

Mr. President, I find it encouraging that you are proposing an initiative for reducing air pollution.  (Applause.)  Accepting the urgency, it seems clear to me also that climate change is a problem which can no longer be left to our future generation.  (Applause.)  When it comes to the care of our common home, we are living at a critical moment of history.  We still have time to make the change needed to bring about a sustainable and integral development, for we know that things can change.  (Applause.)

Such change demands on our part a serious and responsible recognition not only of the kind of world we may be leaving to our children, but also to the millions of people living under a system which has overlooked them.  Our common home has been part of this group of the excluded, which cries out to heaven and which today powerfully strikes our homes, our cities, our societies.  To use a telling phrase of the Reverend Martin Luther King, we can say that we have defaulted on a promissory note, and now is the time to honor it.  (Applause.)

We know by faith that the Creator does not abandon us; He never forsakes his loving plan or repents of having created us. Humanity has the ability to work together in building our common home.  As Christians inspired by this certainty, we wish to commit ourselves to the conscious and responsible care of our common home.

Mr. President, the efforts which were recently made to mend broken relationships and to open new doors to cooperation within our human family represent positive steps along the path of reconciliation, justice and freedom.

I would like all men and women of good will in this great nation to support the efforts of the international community to protect the vulnerable in our world and to stimulate integral and inclusive models of development -- (applause) -- so that our brothers and sisters everywhere may know the blessings of peace and prosperity which God wills for all his children.

Mr. President, once again I thank you for your welcome, and I look forward to these days in your country.  God bless America.  (Applause.)

MRS. BUSH:  Thank you so much, Onaba.  Thank you for joining us today, for moderating this conversation between me and Mrs. Michelle Obama.  I think Michelle Obama has already been watching us.  There she is.  Hey, Michelle!  Good to see you.  (Applause.)

MRS. OBAMA:  Great to see you, Laura.  Hi, everyone.  First let me apologize that I couldn’t be there with you guys in person.  But I’m excited to be a part of the conversation, so thanks so much.

MRS. BUSH:  Well, this really works out perfectly because this summit is about how to use new technology and innovation for First Ladies and their staffs.  And so it’s perfect that we can use this new technology now to videoconference in.

Our moderator, Onaba, is here with me.  She’s the valedictorian of her class at the American University in Afghanistan.  And this is really good news -- she’s a new Fulbright scholar.  So that's terrific.  So, Onaba, thank you.  (Applause.)

MS. PAYAB:  Thank you for much for the honor of moderating the conversation with you and Mrs. Obama.  I am so excited to have this opportunity to discuss innovation and technology, in particular in the context of global girls’ education, an issue I know you both have spent a great deal of time championing.

My first question is for Mrs. Obama.  Mrs. Obama, as First Lady of the United States, you have focused on encouraging young people of the United States to complete their education past high school, and you have also focused on expanding access to education for girls abroad.  Why is this so important to you?

MRS. OBAMA:  Well, Onaba, thank you first of all for moderating the panel.  Congratulations on everything that you're doing.  I wish I could be there in person to congratulate you, but we’ve got a visitor coming.  You may have heard of the Pope.  (Laughter.)  So I wanted to make sure that I was here.

But for me, to answer your question, the issue of adolescent girls’ education is really personal.  Growing up, most of you probably know my family didn't have much money.  And neither of my parents were able to get a college degree, and there were plenty of people in my life who made me feel like a girl with a background like mine just wasn’t equipped to go to college.

And as I’ve traveled across America and around the world as First Lady, I’ve met so many amazing, brilliant young people facing some of these same challenges and, in many cases, far, far worse challenges than anything I ever encountered.  And that's particularly true for girls in developing countries.

In fact, 62 million of these girls aren’t in school at all.  And like many of you, I really see myself in these girls.  I see my daughters in these girls.  So it’s really hard to walk away from them.  As you know, they're bright.  These girls are hungry to learn, and I know that if they can get an education just like I did, they can absolutely rise above their circumstances and fulfill their potential.

That was my story, and that’s why I’m focusing on this issue as First Lady.  And I will continue to champion this cause long after I’m finished here in the White House.

MS. PAYAB: Thank you so much, Mrs. Obama.

Mrs. Laura Bush, after September 11th, you became a strong advocate for women and girls in Afghanistan.  You were the first First Lady who taped the Presidential Radio Address on November 2001 to describe the brutality and barbarism against women and girls by Taliban, and you encouraged Americans and the international community to support women and girls of Afghanistan.  Then you made your first trip to Afghanistan in 2005, which is when you announced the establishment of the American University of Afghanistan, of which I am a beneficiary.

As you know, the university officially started in 2006 with 53 students, including only one woman.  Last year, I was the valedictorian, and more than 53 percent of the incoming class are women.  (Applause.)  What was your hope then for the university, especially Afghan women and girls?  And a decade later, what’s your hope now?

MRS. BUSH:  Well, I would have never guessed when I was in Afghanistan and announced the establishment of the American University in Afghanistan that I’d be sitting 10 years later with the valedictorian, a woman from that class.  And I’m so thrilled.  This is truly a dream come true for me, to be with you, Onaba, and to see the success of you and your sisters all across Afghanistan.

George and I remain very committed to Afghanistan.  We believe that we have to continue to work with you and with all the people of Afghanistan to be able to build the kind of country that I know you want and to build the institutions that you need to support a democracy.

We in the United States inherited those institutions.  We inherited all the rights that we have, and it seems easy to us.  But it took us over a hundred years even to abolish slavery; longer than that for women to receive the right to vote in the United States.  And so Americans are impatient.  We want to see Afghanistan succeed.  We hope that you will succeed quickly but we do know that it takes time, and we know that from our own history.

When you look around the world and you see the countries where half of the population is left out, where women are marginalized and they're not involved either in the economy or in any part of life in society in these countries, you see countries that are failing.  Which is why it’s so important that all of us -- and that's what we're doing here today -- work to make sure that girls and women are educated, and they're allowed to participate in every part, every aspect of society in their countries.  And you certainly are just a wonderful example of that.  Thank you, Onaba.

MS. PAYAB:  Thank you so much, Mrs. Bush.  AU students really appreciate what you have done for them.

Mrs. Obama, 62 million girls around the world are not in school.  Can you talk a little bit about how it affects their families and countries?

MRS. OBAMA:  Absolutely.  And let me just say to Laura, congratulations on all the great progress that you've made.  It just shows how powerful the platform of First Lady can be, even when you've left office.  So I really want to congratulate you on the great work.

The evidence is very clear when it comes to the importance of girls’ education.  As Laura mentioned, when we send more girls to school, that’s not just good for them, it’s good for their families, and it’s even good for their entire countries.

We know that countries where more girls are in secondary schools, they have lower maternal mortality rates, lower infant mortality rates.  They have lower rates of HIV/AIDS.  They have better child nutrition.

And when girls attend school, they earn higher salaries.  And collectively, that can boost their entire country’s economy.  So there’s a pretty dramatic ripple effect when we send girls to school.  It’s really one of the most impactful things that we can do for developing countries and for developed countries for that matter.

And that’s one of the reasons why I launched earlier this year Let Girls Learn, which is an initiative that hopes to help these girls and their communities by empowering them through education.  Education is the reason I sit before you today.  And I know that we are all in agreement that we deserve to give every girl on this planet that same opportunity.

MS. PAYAB:  Exactly.  And, Mrs. Bush, we know that you worked to encourage women’s empowerment during your time as a First Lady of the United States.  You have chosen to continue to work on these issues through the Global Women’s Initiative at the Bush Institute.  Why is empowering women and girls so critical to advancing women’s rights?  And why is it important to convene Global Women’s Network summit?

MRS. BUSH:  Well, I think Michelle just told us all the reasons that it’s so important.  We know that the good health of mothers is important to the good health of their children.  We know that women being involved in an economy is great for the economy of their countries.  We know that when women and men are educated, their countries are much more likely to be successful and prosperous.

So all of those things we know.  And what we need to do is figure out all the different ways we can help make sure that happens.  And Michelle’s Let Girls Learn is one great program that tries to encourage people to make sure girls are in school everywhere.

Here, we’ve worked on some of the things I told you about already -- the Women’s Leadership Fellowship, where we’ve brought women from Egypt -- two classes of women from Egypt and two classes of women from Tunisia to learn leadership skills, to be paired with an American woman -- a prominent American woman who’s in their same profession.  And then it’s a year-long fellowship.  They stay in the United States for a month, and then they stay in contact with their American mentor for the whole year.  At the midpoint of the year, the American mentors went to Egypt or Tunisia to meet with their fellows.

But the idea is based on research by an SMU professor, a woman who’s a professor here, that shows that your network is as important as your education level to your success.  And we in the United States, women have a chance to build broad networks with our friends and our colleagues, and people -- associations that we join.  But not all women have that.

So the idea was to bring women all from the same country, in two classes from Egypt and two from Tunisia, so when they went home, they had each other and they could introduce each other to their colleagues, and thereby, broaden their network.  And one of our classes of Tunisian women say their network is now 17,000 women strong, which is really terrific.  (Applause.)

MRS. OBAMA:  Wow.

MRS. BUSH:  So that’s one of the ways we are working to help women broaden their networks worldwide in countries.  And that’s certainly what we’re doing here today.  That’s part of it, is we’re giving -- all of us have the chance now to network with each other.  The First Ladies have the chance to meet nonprofits that are in their countries, corporations that are interested in their countries, and ways to figure out how to partner together with their networks.

MS. PAYAB:  Mrs. Obama, how do you hope for the First Ladies and other leaders attending this summit will draw on and employ the information, new relationships and partnership as a result -- they have gained in participating in this summit?

MRS. OBAMA:  Thanks for that question.  Networking is key, as Laura said.  And this is an excellent opportunity for a phenomenal group of global leaders to come together.

Now, when I’ve traveled internationally, I’ve really tried to engage foreign leaders on the issue of adolescent girls’ education.  And fortunately, so many of these leaders are already doing great work on this issue, or they’re interested in finding ways to get started.  And as the U.S. forms new partnerships with some of those countries, one of the things we’re really focusing on are what we call community-led, community-driven approaches.

And that’s probably my main advice that I would give to all of you there today.  Starting at the community level is incredibly effective, because while the problem of girls’ education globally is a global issue, so many of these solutions are really local.  They’re about working side by side to address the challenges that people are facing in their day-to-day lives, in their homes, their villages, their neighbors -- their neighborhoods.

Maybe that means something as simple as creating safe transportation to help girls get to school.  Maybe it means building bathrooms for girls in schools.  Maybe it means helping families pay school fees.  Or maybe it’s about working with -- hand in hand with local leaders, with the families, and, oftentimes, with the girls themselves to do something really important, and that is to change attitudes.

In the video that I saw, one of the First Ladies talked about the change in mindset.  Because if we really think about it, it’s not always about resources when we’re trying to solve some of these big problems like girls’ education.  One of the biggest barriers we face in this work is battling cultural norms and traditions that say that girls are simply unworthy of an education.

So I hope that all of you will continue to work together with each other and with folks at the local level in your communities, in your countries to find ways to really work on mindset, face these challenges and come up with real, community-driven solutions.  Again, that’s something that we hope to do through Let Girls Learn, working with Peace Corps volunteers who are often the main people from this country who are on the ground living for long periods of time in communities.  They get to know the leaders, they get to know the cultural norms, they get to know the girls, and the best solutions often come from those relationships.

MS. PAYAB:  Thank you.  Now I have two questions that I would like both of you to answer.  Women are often noted to be good collaborators.  Women work together for the betterment of their communities.  Why do you feel it’s important for the two of you to collaborate together on summits for First Ladies and other leaders?  We’ll start with you, Mrs. Bush.

MRS. BUSH:  Well, I think it’s very important -- I think Michelle just said it -- and that is how important partnerships are.  And when she and I work together, it really elevates the issue that we’re talking about, more than if just either one of us was working separately.

And I think it’s also a great example for the world to see that women of different political parties in the United States agree on so many issues.  We’re in the midst of a political campaign now, as everyone knows, a presidential race coming up.  And when you watch television, you think that everyone in the United States disagrees with everybody else.  (Laughter.)

But in fact, we as Americans agree on so many more things than we disagree on.  (Applause.)  And when Michelle and I work together with other former First Ladies, I think it raises -- it elevates the ideas that we’re working on, and in this case, of course, it’s on women’s rights and women’s education and education for women and girls.

And it does help to, what Michelle just said, which is change attitudes.  And that is the -- really the basic thing that we need to change.  We need to make sure people respect women and girls enough to know that they need to be educated just like boys do.  So I think that’s important.

George and I were in Washington a couple of years ago and we were meeting with the then-health minister of Ethiopia, Tedros, if you know him.  We were talking to him about Pink Ribbon Red Ribbon; we were getting ready to launch it in Ethiopia.  And he’s now -- Tedros is now the foreign minister of Ethiopia.  But at the time, we were in Washington because all the former Presidents were coming to Washington to honor George’s dad for his Points of Light Foundation -- President Bush for his Points of Light Foundation.

And so I just happened to say to Tedros, we’re here because all the former Presidents are coming and President Obama is in a video to honor President George H.W. Bush.  And he said, you just don’t know what that means.  He said, you don’t know what that means to the rest of the world to see all the former Presidents together.  And it really does.  It really is a wonderful example I think for the rest of the world that our Presidents and our First Ladies work together on issues that are important to Americans but also important to the world.  (Applause.)

MRS. OBAMA:  Absolutely.  Well said, well said.  I couldn’t have said it better myself.  The only thing I’ll add -- I think I made this comment last year -- women, we’re smarter.  We can do this stuff -- like collaboration, we’re really good at it.  So let’s keep taking the leadership role and show the world what we can do.

The other thing I want to say is, as you all know, I deeply admire and respect Laura.  And I think that it’s important to collaborate with people you admire and respect, regardless of party.  So there’s that, and I would encourage all of you -- through these summits, you all are making wonderful relationships, and the goal is to take that mindset back to your countries whenever there’s a transition and figure out how to continue to create these bipartisan or nonpartisan partnerships.

Because that’s what makes a democracy work, truly.  It’s the willingness to reach across party lines and find that commonality, which absolutely exists throughout this world.  It’s not just true here in the United States, but it’s true across the globe.  We all want the best for our families, no matter where you live in the world.  We want our kids to get educated.  We want to make sure people have health care.  We want to ensure that we live in safe communities.  And we also need to make sure that our girls are getting the education they need.

But all of these issues are about anything but politics.  All of these issues are about helping people lift themselves and their communities out of poverty, or to help folks fulfill their highest potential.  And the work that we’re doing here through the summit that the First Ladies, all of us are doing, it’s about ensuring that women and girls can be treated as full and equal citizens, which is so critical for all of our countries’ economic and political success.  No matter what party we belong to, we can all agree on that very objective.

And I agree with Laura that I think it’s important for the two of us and others in public life to model and to encourage that kind of collaborative approach.  It has made my transition to this office so much easier having somebody like Laura and her team.  We’ve said this before -- it’s not just Laura and I, it’s not just President Bush and President Obama, but it’s our staffs.  My Chief of Staff continues to talk to Laura’s former Chief of Staff on a very regular basis.  And it’s that kind of sharing that prevents us from recreating the wheel, or -- it allows us to build on the things that are already working so that the country gains as we transition from one party to the next.  That's how we do it in America.  And our goal is to spread that message around the world.

(Audio drops.)

MRS. BUSH:  (In progress) but Barbara got this idea of recruiting young, smart college graduates to work in the health field.  And she has fellows in four countries in Africa and in three cities in the United States.  They're an American young person, college graduate paired with somebody -- a young person from another country, and they work to help health organizations or ministries or nonprofits build capacity.  So they do everything.

There are young architects in Rwanda who are designing the ventilation system for our Partners in Health hospital so that people with TB don't expose other people there.  Or they help set up the supply chain management and procurement to get drugs out to the clinics in some countries.

But anyway, Barbara is doing very, very well.  She’s just sort of a star in the global health field now.  And Jenna, as some of you may know and some of you may not, is now a contributing correspondent on NBC’s Today Show.  She’s actually the one Michelle goes to.

MRS. OBAMA:  I do.  (Laughter.)

MRS. BUSH:  When she knows she wants an interview without any trick questions.

MRS. OBAMA:  That's right.  (Laughter.)

MRS. BUSH:  George says Jenna is just continuing the Bush family tradition of warm relations with the media.  (Laughter.)  And Jenna is the mother of the two grandchildren -- Mila and Poppy Louise.  You know I know from how successful my girls are, and they are truly successful, and I’m so proud of them.  And of course, the mother is always kind of slightly shocked when her children end up being successful.  (Laughter.)

But I know the kind of world I want them to have.  And I want them to have a world where they and Mila and Poppy Louise can achieve their highest goals, the highest (inaudible) -- that her beautiful daughter made -- in New York now for the UNGA, and it was “Forgive for Peace.”  And of course, which is so meaningful from Rwanda, but meaningful for all of us now at this time in our world.

And so I think all of us when we look at our daughters and our sons, if you have sons, we want them to be successful and to live in a peaceful world.  That's what we hope for all of them.

MS. PAYAB:  Can we have your remarks, Mrs. Obama?

MRS. OBAMA:  Certainly.  First of all, the sound came in and out, so I just want to make sure I heard some of the question.  But I think we're talking about motherhood.  And from what I could tell from Laura’s answer, talking about two of my favorite young women, Barbara and Jenna, that we're sort of bragging on our kids right now.  (Laughter.)

But let me just say this, I feel so blessed and lucky to be the mother of what I think are two amazing, smart, funny, outspoken young women.  And this is yet another thing that Laura and I share -- that we’ve managed to raise two girls in the White House and somehow maintain our sanity and hopefully theirs too.  I’m still checking on my girls; we’re not out yet.  (Laughter.)

Laura has done a phenomenal job with her daughters, and I hope that my girls continue to mature as beautifully as they have been while here.  And I also hope that as they grow up, as Barbara and Jenna have, that they find ways to leave their own mark on the world as well.

And that actually brings me to a point that I want to make about the work that we have to do on global girls’ education.  What we’re trying to do here is not just about lifting up girls abroad; it’s about reminding young people like my daughters that they need to be hungry for their own education here at home, here in the United States.  And that’s why through Let Girls Learn, I’m also working to educate young people here in the U.S. about the sacrifices that girls are making worldwide.  What some young girls are doing just to get to school, how they’re pushing forward in the face of poverty and violence and so many other horrors.  I want our young people to be inspired by these girls, and I want them to commit more deeply to their own education here at home.

And I also want girls here in the United States to find ways to connect to these girls abroad.  I mean, as we talk about the role that technology can play -- I always tell young people, don’t use your iPhone to just take a picture of what you’re eating.  (Laughter.)  You can actually take a picture of some interesting things that are going on in your lives and share them across the globe.  Find those girls in other parts of the world, support their efforts to get an education.

And I hope that that’s work that we as First Ladies can help to support -- find ways to connect our girls with each other from country to country.  Ultimately, as I said before, in this global age, I think we can agree that our kids need to be global citizens.  They need to understand what’s happening in the world beyond our borders.  And introducing them to an issue that they can relate to -- something like girls’ education -- that can be one of the best ways to start that conversation, to begin that process.

So I can’t help but, again, think about my girls as I think about these issues.  As I watch them grow and blossom and flourish, I think about the millions of other girls that deserve that same chance.  And I want my daughters to be as impactful as Barbara and Jenna are being.  And I think it’s up to us as mothers to help set that example and provide them with the tools and with the passion to be able to direct that energy as they get older.

So I hope that this generation of young people coming up, they learn each other and they use technology in that way -- to build those bridges and to really spark that movement of empowerment across the globe.

MRS. BUSH:  Michelle, you and President Obama have been wonderful examples as parents for parents all over the United States.  So thank you all for that.  And I know your girls are doing great.

So I think we’ve come to the end of our time.  I actually have a timer right here.  (Laughter.)  Thank you for joining us today, Michelle.  Thank you very, very much.  And say hello to the Holy Father for us if you have a chance when he comes to visit you today -- or tomorrow.

MRS. OBAMA:  I will.

MRS. BUSH:  And thank you very much for joining us.  And we hope to see you soon.

MRS. OBAMA:  Absolutely.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

Good morning everyone.  Thank you, President Knapp, for that kind introduction, and thank you to everyone at GW for hosting me.  I wanted to come to this distinguished university to speak directly to younger people, because my topic this morning will impact your futures—whether you decide to open a business, develop cutting-edge internet technology, or work in national security.  That’s the relationship between China and the United States, the most consequential in the world today.

But allow me to start with a little bit of history.

“There is special news this afternoon—you are lost.”

That was how Zhou En-Lai greeted Henry Kissinger at their now-famous meeting in Beijing on July 9, 1971.  The trip was a closely guarded secret.  No one knew where Kissinger was—he had feigned an illness and decamped from a Pakistani airfield in the dead of night for face-to-face talks with the Chinese.  He didn’t even pack a clean shirt for his 48-hour mission.  But, that first meeting between President Nixon’s National Security Advisor and Chairman Mao’s Prime Minister led directly to the first visit by a U.S. President to China and the opening of relations between our nations—a trip that was dubbed, “the week that changed the world.”  Over the past four decades, we’ve seen how prescient that assessment was.

I recently returned from my own visit to China—my third since becoming National Security Advisor.  None of mine had to be secret.  I always brought clean clothes.  On each visit, I met with President Xi and China’s top leadership, conveying President Obama’s personal commitment to advancing the relationship between our countries, while candidly addressing our differences.  On my last trip in late August, I spent more than eight hours in intensive discussions with my Chinese counterpart and many more with other senior officials discussing our nations’ priorities, our expectations of one another, and our visions for the future—where they overlap and how we will handle disagreements.

President Obama will continue our frank and comprehensive discussions when he welcomes President Xi to the White House later this week for a State Visit.  Over the past two years, President Xi and President Obama have spent many hours meeting in formal and informal settings, as well as communicating through phone calls and letters, because many global challenges today can only be met with China and the United States working in concert.

It can be easy to lose sight of the larger arc of progress in our bilateral relationship with China amid the headlines that understandably focus on the differences between our countries.  Our differences and America’s concerns are real.  At the same time, it’s important to recognize the long-term trends that increasingly anchor this complex relationship.  So today, I’d like to speak about how the United States approaches China, how far we’ve come, and how we view the future we want to build together.

Let me start with the broader context.  Pursuing a productive relationship with China is a critical element of our larger strategy for the Asia Pacific.  The United States is a Pacific power.  We’ve been the guarantor of stability in the region for the past 70 years.  President Obama has made it clear that we have vital interests in Asia and the Pacific, and a good part of our foreign policy has been focused on our rebalance to Asia—the President’s commitment to expand America’s engagement in this region, which had waned under the strain of wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Our determination to shape the future of this dynamic region continues to benefit the Asia-Pacific today—enhancing security, expanding prosperity, and advancing human dignity.

America’s unmatched leadership is grounded in our treaty alliances with Japan, South Korea, Australia, the Philippines, and Thailand.  We’ve modernized these essential partnerships to tackle a full range of regional and global challenges—from providing humanitarian assistance to fighting pandemic disease.  We’ve strengthened our defense posture in the region to ensure our collective security, including new access agreements to rotate U.S. forces to Australia and the Philippines.  These alliances, rooted in our shared values, are powerful platforms for advancing a rules-based international system.  The work of keeping our alliances strong and prepared for the future is never done, which is why President Obama welcomed Prime Minister Abe of Japan for a State Visit in April, and in the coming weeks, he will host President Park of South Korea.

At the same time, we’re building productive new partnerships with emerging regional powers.  We’re engaging vital voices like India in regional discussions, and in the last year, Prime Minister Modi and President Obama have exchanged formal visits to deepen the relationship between our two great democracies.  We’ve overcome past conflicts and are strengthening cooperation, as when President Obama welcomed Vietnam’s General Secretary Truong to the Oval Office this summer.  We’ve explored an opening to Burma and will continue to press for follow-through on the democratic reforms that have been initiated there as the country prepares for a landmark election.  And, we’re collaborating with regional leaders to advance our shared agenda, as we will when President Widodo of Indonesia visits Washington next month.

We’re also investing in regional institutions like the Pacific Islands Forum, as well as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), and the East Asia Summit (EAS).  President Obama is the first U.S. President to help shape this architecture of cooperation in the region through sustained personal engagement at these regional summits.  In November, President Obama will again travel to Asia—to the Philippines and Malaysia—to participate in APEC and EAS.  Through our active involvement in all these institutions, we’re promoting regional growth and economic integration.  We’ve helped strengthen their capacity to resolve conflicts, support democratic development, advance human rights, and ensure that all countries in the region play by the same rules.

That’s especially important for spurring broad-based economic growth in the fastest-growing region in the world.  The landmark Trans-Pacific Partnership that we’re working to conclude will unlock greater trade and investment among countries in the region, while raising standards for worker rights, environmental safeguards, and intellectual property protections.  It will bring us closer to our allies and partners, demonstrating our commitment to a shared future.  We’re working now to complete negotiations for TPP so that we level the playing field for American businesses and workers.

It is against this backdrop—as President Obama has often said—that the United States welcomes a rising China that is peaceful, stable, prosperous, and a responsible player in global affairs.  It’s natural that China take on greater leadership to match its economic development and growing capabilities.  When China is invested in helping resolve regional and global problems, the United States – and the world – benefits.  We also recognize that China has prospered within a secure environment and international economic system that depends upon the United States’ long-standing commitments to the region.  And, we will continue taking steps to build a productive, cooperative relationship with China that delivers benefits for both our peoples.  That’s a central pillar of our strategy in Asia.

Under President Obama’s leadership, we have deepened our engagement with China at every level—maximizing our cooperation on areas of mutual interest while confronting and managing our disagreements.  We reject reductive reasoning and lazy rhetoric that says conflict between the U.S. and China is inevitable, even as we’ve been tough with China where we disagree.  This isn’t a zero-sum game.  Our capacity to manage our differences is greater than that.

The United States comes to this relationship as an unquestionably strong player—an historic and enduring global leader, with a resurgent economy and a diverse and innovative people—and we welcome a China that joins in upholding the rules-based order that has served both our nations so well for so long.  We invite China to work with us to adapt existing regional and international institutions so they are better able to address current realities.  That’s why President Obama elevated the G-20 to be the premier forum for global economic cooperation.  And, that’s why we’re committed to passing legislation to implement International Monetary Fund reforms, so that fast-growing nations, including China, can contribute more to the international financial system.

Deeper engagement between our countries yields dividends for both Americans and Chinese.  Since President Obama took office, our exports to China have nearly doubled, and China is now the third largest market for American-made goods, following Canada and Mexico.  Over that same period, Chinese investment in the United States surged from just about $1 billion to more than $10 billion.

We’ve extended visas for travel between our countries for business people, students, and tourists, making it easier for our citizens to study and work together.  We’ve increased the number of visas we issue to Chinese travelers—from less than half a million in 2009 to more than 1.7 million last year.  And that’s important, because the average Chinese tourist contributes more than $7,000 to the U.S. economy when they visit.  That adds up.

As two nations that will shape the direction of this century, we want our young people to learn together and develop early connections, so we’re encouraging student exchanges and study abroad.  Today, there are almost 275,000 Chinese students studying in the United States—up from less than 100,000 in 2009.   And, we’ve already exceeded President Obama’s goal of sending 100,000 Americans to study in China.  We look forward to setting an ambitious new target during President Xi’s visit and continuing to strengthen our people-to-people ties.

Since creating our Strategic and Economic Dialogue with China in 2009, we’ve used that forum to find new areas for practical cooperation on global issues.  This summer, at the seventh session, we committed to strengthening our cooperation on everything from disaster response to combatting wildlife trafficking to establishing civilian cooperation in space.

We’re also working together to advance our shared security.  During the past five years, we’ve bolstered our military-to-military ties with China.  We’ve increased military exchanges and made high-level visits a regular occurrence.  China now participates in our multilateral RIMPAC exercise—the largest naval exercise in the world.  And last year, when President Obama visited China, we agreed to institute confidence-building measures between our militaries that increase transparency and predictability, thereby reducing the risk of unintended incidents.  We’ve seen a marked improvement in operational safety since we signed these measures and believe this engagement is critical to avoid inadvertent escalation, while promoting constructive cooperation.

China has been a constructive partner in advancing the non-proliferation agenda, supporting efforts to secure nuclear materials and drive global action through the Nuclear Security Summits.  Most recently, we’ve worked through the P5+1 to ensure that Iran does not obtain a nuclear weapon.  China and the United States are in firm agreement that a nuclear-armed Iran would pose an unacceptable threat to the world, and we cooperated to build and enforce a tough sanctions regime that brought Iran to the negotiating table.  China voluntarily agreed to reduce their purchases of Iranian oil to build pressure.  And, now that we have a deal, we will coordinate closely with China and all our partners to ensure Iran meets its commitments.

China and the United States are equally united in demanding the complete and verifiable denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.  We firmly oppose North Korea’s efforts to develop nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles that threaten regional stability and our respective national security interests.  China is a fulcrum of influence for the DPRK, and this week’s meetings between Presidents Obama and Xi will be another opportunity to discuss how we can sharpen Pyongyang’s choices between having nuclear weapons and developing economically.  Neither the United States nor China will accept North Korea as a nuclear weapons state.

In recent years, we’ve expanded our cooperation with China to increase stability and spur economic growth in Afghanistan.  We’re investing in Afghanistan’s development and supporting efforts to advance an Afghan-led peace process.  Our joint programs train Afghan diplomats, health care workers and farmers, and we’re doing more to embed Afghanistan into regional institutions and economic systems and to increase its resilience to threats.

As the two largest consumers of energy and the two largest carbon emitters in the world, our cooperation on climate change is vital to the security and the prosperity of our world.  Here, China and the United States are taking decisive action.  We’ve built an unprecedented bilateral partnership to drive down carbon emissions and promote clean energy in key sectors, including power generation and industry, transportation and forestry.  Through initiatives like the Clean Energy Research Center, we’re jointly developing solutions to improve energy efficiency in buildings, advance electric vehicle technology, and explore carbon capture.  And, last year, President Obama and President Xi made an historic announcement in Beijing, committing our countries to cut carbon emissions and meet ambitious climate targets—the first time that China has ever agreed to reduce its emissions.  Both leaders are personally committed to ensuring that the world agrees to a strong, comprehensive climate agreement in Paris this December.  This is an example to the world of how sustained U.S.-China engagement can yield historic results to meet the challenges of the 21st century.

We’ve also seen impressive evidence of the difference China and the United States can make when we work together to lift up the lives of people in other countries.  At the peak of the Ebola crisis in West Africa, America’s leadership, along with the contributions of international partners, helped beat back a devastating epidemic.  American and Chinese healthcare workers labored side-by-side to save lives.  Moving forward, the U.S. and China will help Africa set up its own Center for Disease Control.  To prepare for future epidemics, we’ll work closely with China to jointly advance our shared Global Health Security Agenda.

So, we are steadily and methodically expanding the breadth and depth of our cooperation with China.  Our story is, overwhelmingly, one of progress.  Still, the reality is we face difficult challenges.  And, we never shy away from pressing our concerns.

In our interconnected global economy, American companies and workers can compete and succeed anywhere.  But the competition must be fair.  When China’s economic policies impede the free flow of commerce and worsen trade imbalances, it distorts the global economy.  When China forces firms to hand over their technology as a condition for market access, it discourages innovation.  When American businesses increasingly question whether the cost of doing business in China is worth it, that reduces trade and investment for everyone, and undercuts the support for the U.S.-China relationship here at home.  And, as the world’s second largest economy, China’s actions reverberate through the global financial markets – as we saw recently with China’s stock market.

So, we want China to advance market reforms that level the playing field for foreign firms, reduce barriers to trade, and unleash its massive domestic consumer potential.  China’s economy has gotten too big to rely on an export-driven growth strategy.  And, we’ll continue to insist that China refrain from competitive currency devaluation.  We want a future where businesses in China succeed or fail on their merits, without discriminatory subsidies or markets that are closed to competition.  We want a business climate where intellectual property rights and trade secrets are respected, not stolen.

In his meetings with President Xi, President Obama has repeatedly made plain that state-sponsored, cyber-enabled economic espionage must stop.  This isn’t a mild irritation.  It is an economic and national security concern to the United States.  It puts enormous strain on our bilateral relationship, and it is a critical factor in determining the future trajectory of U.S.-China ties.  Cyber-enabled espionage that targets personal and corporate information for the economic gain of businesses undermines our long-term economic cooperation, and it needs to stop.  So, we’ll continue to urge China to join us in promoting responsible norms of state behavior in cyberspace.

We’ve also made clear our position on maritime disputes in the East and South China Seas.  The United States takes no position on competing territorial claims, but we insist upon and will continue to underscore our fundamental national interest in preserving freedom of navigation and commerce through some of the world’s busiest sea lanes.  The United States of America will sail, fly, and operate anywhere that international law permits.

We have an interest in preventing territorial disputes from growing into larger conflicts that destabilize the region.  The G-7 and ASEAN share our concerns, and we will work with all our partners to establish a peaceful process, based in international law, for resolving maritime claims with diplomacy—not force or coercion.  We call on all claimants to reciprocally halt land reclamation, construction of new facilitates, and militarization of outposts on disputed areas.  Instead, we urge China and ASEAN countries to conclude a Code of Conduct and set clear, predictable, binding rules of the road in the South China Sea.

We also have candid exchanges on Taiwan.  The longstanding position of the United States is unchanged.  We remain committed to our “one China” policy based on the three Joint Communiques and the Taiwan Relations Act.  Our fundamental interest is in peaceful and stable cross-Strait relations, and we oppose unilateral changes to the status quo by either side.

Another profound difference between our two governments is human rights.  Around the world, the United States never backs away from difficult issues.  With China, we speak openly about persistent human rights violations, pressing our concerns at every level.  We raise the cases of individuals like Liu Xiaobo, Xu Zhiyong, Gao Yu, Ilham Tohti, and Pu Zhiqiang, who are unjustly detained.  China’s increasing restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly – including their visa restrictions on American journalists – are not only wrong; they are short-sighted.  They hollow-out China’s potential.  Already the environment for civil society organizations is so repressive that many groups are heading elsewhere.  The draft foreign NGO law that China is considering would be another step in the wrong direction, threatening the very organizations that have promoted China’s development and advanced the friendship between our peoples.

Denying ethnic minorities like Tibetans and Uighurs their fundamental freedoms, or closing churches and removing crosses, or placing restrictions on who can enter a mosque—these actions only fuel grievances and raise serious questions about China’s commitment to protecting freedom of religion.  Detaining lawyers and journalists and anti-corruption activists only reduces the credibility of China’s efforts to address its challenges, hampering its ability to achieve a prosperous and stable society.  Blocking free access to the Internet, at a time when the rest of the world is moving toward greater openness and connection, only cuts off opportunities for the Chinese people to advance.

I raise each of these issues in my meetings with Chinese leaders, and I say the same thing to my counterparts that I have said to you.  As my critics allege, I am rather direct.  I assure you that President Obama will be just as direct when he sees President Xi.  This is a vital relationship of the 21st century, and we have to be upfront about our differences, because they are preventing us from reaching the full potential of our cooperation.

Many of our concerns stem from a common root.  Steps that erode the international system or that slowly eat away at a rules-based order and universal rights or that give one nation an unfair advantage are detrimental to all.  This is true whether we are talking about maritime concerns or cyberspace or human rights.  China cannot expect to wield influence selectively or lead only when it’s convenient, opting in or out of international norms at will.  Everyone has to play by the same rules, regardless of size or power, because that’s the way everyone can compete and be treated equally.

I know that some people question why we host China at all.  That is a dangerous and short-sighted view.  If we sought to punish China by cancelling meetings or refusing to engage them, we would only be punishing ourselves.  It is determined, constant engagement that allowed us to reach a climate agreement, while overcoming long-standing trade disputes.  And determined, constant engagement is necessary to manage our differences.  If America chose to remove itself from China, we would only ensure that the Chinese are not challenged on the issues where we differ and are not encouraged to peacefully rise within the international system that we have done so much to build.

We want the Chinese people to succeed.  When China and the United States work together, the world is more secure and more prosperous.  That’s the truth.  But, success isn’t winning at all costs or getting ahead at the expense of others.  In this century, success is measured by the partners you draw together through principled leadership.  It’s growing your economy while giving everyone an equal chance to compete.  It’s tapping the talents of all your people by expanding the space for them to contribute, not shrinking it.  It’s applying your strength to reinforce international norms, not to revise them.  And, when we welcome President Xi, we will continue exploring practical ways to advance our agenda for shared success.

At that first secret meeting back in 1971, Henry Kissinger delivered a message about how the United States came to the table with China.  “We consider,” he said, that China, “must participate on the basis of equality in all matters affecting the peace of Asia and the peace of the world.  We consider it in our interest, and above all in the interest of the world, that you play your appropriate role in shaping international arrangements.”

That bottom line continues to hold true today.  Perhaps more than ever, it is in our interest for China to participate and play an active and responsible role on the global stage, because the futures of our two nations—the futures of people around the world—grow more deeply intertwined by the day.  In the coming decades, strong and wise American leaders must, necessarily, maintain a relationship with China that promotes cooperation, while allowing for healthy competition.

China and the United States can do great things together.  We have unmatched resources and unique capabilities to address global challenges.  The real points of friction between us cannot be papered over, and we will continue to deal forthrightly with our differences.  But, this relationship is too big and too important to treat with anything less than our full, good-faith effort.  And, you can be sure that our relationship with China—one that is stable, productive, and resilient—will remain at the center of American foreign policy for years to come.

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, CBC!  (Applause.)  I guess I get the fancier lectern here.  Everybody please have a seat.  Have a seat.  I know it’s late.  You’re ready for the after parties.  I should have ditched the speech and brought my playlist.  (Laughter.)  Everybody looks beautiful, handsome, wonderful.  Thank you, Don, for that introduction.  Thank you to the CBC Foundation.  And thank you to the members of the CBC.  (Applause.)

On the challenges of our times, from giving workers a raise to getting families health coverage; on the threats of our time, from climate change to nuclear proliferation -- members of the CBC have been leaders moving America forward.  With your help, our businesses have created over 13 million new jobs.  (Applause.)  With your help, we’ve covered more than 16 million Americans with health insurance -- many for the first time.  (Applause.)  Three years ago, Republicans said they’d get the unemployment rate down to 6 percent by 2017.  It’s down to 5.1 right now.  (Applause.)  You didn’t hear much about that at the debate on Monday -- on Wednesday night.

The point is, though, none of this progress would have been possible without the CBC taking tough votes when it mattered most.  Whatever I’ve accomplished, the CBC has been there.  (Applause.)  I was proud to be a CBC member when I was in the Senate, and I’m proud to be your partner today.  But we’re not here just to celebrate -- we’re here to keep going.  Because with the unemployment rate for African Americans still more than double than whites, with millions of families still working hard and still waiting to feel the recovery in their own lives, we know that the promise of this nation -- where every single American, regardless of the circumstances in which they were born, regardless of what they look like, where they come from, has the chance to succeed -- that promise is not yet fulfilled.

The good thing about America -- the great project of America is that perfecting our union is never finished.  We’ve always got more work to do.  And tonight’s honorees remind us of that.  They remind us of the courage and sacrifices, the work that they’ve done -- and not just at the national level, but in local communities all across the country.  We couldn’t be prouder of them.  The heroes of the Civil Rights Movement whom we lost last month remind us of the work that remains to be done.  American heroes like Louis Stokes, and Julian Bond, and Amelia Boynton Robinson.  (Applause.)

Ms. Robinson -- as some of you know, earlier this year, my family and I joined many in Selma for the 50th anniversary of that march.  And as we crossed the Edmund Pettus Bridge, I held Ms. Amelia’s hand.  And I thought about her and all the extraordinary women like her who were really the life force of the movement.  (Applause.)  Women were the foot soldiers.  Women strategized boycotts.  Women organized marches.  Even if they weren’t allowed to run the civil rights organizations on paper, behind the scenes they were the thinkers and the doers making things happen each and every day -- (applause) -- doing the work that nobody else wanted to do.  They couldn’t prophesize from the pulpits, but they led the charge from the pews.  They were no strangers to violence.  They were on the front lines.  So often they were subject to abuse, dehumanized, but kept on going, holding families together.  Mothers were beaten and gassed on Bloody Sunday.  Four little girls were murdered in a Birmingham church.  Women made the movement happen.

Of course, black women have been a part of every great movement in American history -- (applause) -- even if they weren’t always given a voice.  They helped plan the March on Washington, but were almost entirely absent from the program.  And when pressed, male organizers added a tribute highlighting six women -- none of them who were asked to make a speech.  Daisy Bates introduced her fellow honorees in just 142 words, written by a man.  Of course, Marian Anderson and Mahalia Jackson sang.  But in a three-hour program, the men gave women just 142 words.  That may sound familiar to some of the women in the room here tonight.  The organizers even insisted on two separate parades -- male leaders marching along the main route on Pennsylvania Avenue, and leaders like Dorothy Height and Rosa Parks relegated to Independence Avenue.  America’s most important march against segregation had its own version of separation.

Black women were central in the fight for women’s rights, from suffrage to the feminist movement -- (applause) -- and yet despite their leadership, too often they were also marginalized.  But they didn’t give up, they didn’t let up.  They were too fierce for that.  Black women have always understood the words of Pauli Murray -- that “Hope is a song in a weary throat.”

It’s thanks to black women that we’ve come a long way since the days when a girl like Ruby Bridges couldn’t go to school.  When a woman like Amelia couldn’t cast her vote.  When we didn’t have a Congressional Black Caucus -- and its 20 women members.  (Applause.)

So I’m focusing on women tonight because I want them to know how much we appreciate them, how much we admire them, how much we love them.  (Applause.)  And I want to talk about what more we have to do to provide full opportunity and equality for our black women and girls in America today.  (Applause.)

Because all of us are beneficiaries of a long line of strong black women who helped carry this country forward.  Their work to expand civil rights opened the doors of opportunity, not just for African Americans but for all women, for all of us -- black and white, Latino and Asian, LGBT and straight, for our First Americans and our newest Americans.  And their contributions in every field -- as scientists and entrepreneurs, educators, explorers -- all made us stronger.  Of course, they’re also a majority of my household.  (Laughter and applause.)  So I care deeply about how they’re doing.

The good news is, despite structural barriers of race and gender, women and girls of color have made real progress in recent years.  The number of black women-owned businesses has skyrocketed.  (Applause.)  Black women have ascended the ranks of every industry.  Teen pregnancy rates among girls of color are down, while high school and four-year college graduation rates are up.  (Applause.)  That’s good news.

But there’s no denying that black women and girls still face real and persistent challenges.  The unemployment rate is over 8 percent for black women.  And they’re overrepresented in low-paying jobs; underrepresented in management.  They often lack access to economic necessities like paid leave and quality, affordable child care.  They often don’t get the same quality health care that they need, and have higher rates of certain chronic diseases -- although that’s starting to change with Obamacare.  (Applause.)  It’s working, by the way, people.  Just in case -- (laughter) -- just in case you needed to know.

And then there are some of the challenges that are harder to see and harder to talk about -- although Michelle, our outstanding, beautiful First Lady talks about these struggles.  (Applause.)  Michelle will tell stories about when she was younger, people telling her she shouldn’t aspire to go to the very best universities.  And she found herself thinking sometimes, “Well, maybe they’re right.”  Even after she earned two degrees from some of the best universities in America, she still faced the doubts that were rooted in deep social prejudice and stereotypes, worrying whether she was being too assertive, or too angry, or too tall.  (Applause.)  I like tall women.  (Laughter and applause.)

And those stereotypes and social pressures, they still affect our girls.  So we all have to be louder than the voices that are telling our girls they’re not good enough -- (applause) -- that they’ve got to look a certain way, or they’ve got to act a certain way, or set their goals at a certain level.  We’ve got to affirm their sense of self-worth, and make them feel visible and beautiful, and understood and loved.  (Applause.)  And I say this as a father who strives to do this at home, but I also say this as a citizen.  This is not just about my family or yours; it’s about who we are as a people, who we want to be, and how we can make sure that America is fulfilling its promise -- because everybody is getting a chance, and everybody is told they’re important, and everybody is given opportunity.  And we got to do more than just say we care, or say we put a woman on ten-dollar bill, although that’s a good idea.  We’ve got to make sure they’re getting some ten-dollar bills; that they’re getting paid properly.  (Applause.)  We’ve got to let our actions do the talking.

It is an affront to the very idea of America when certain segments of our population don’t have access to the same opportunities as everybody else.  It makes a mockery of our economy when black women make 30 fewer cents for every dollar a white man earns.  (Applause.)  That adds up to thousands of dollars in missed income that determines whether a family can pay for a home, or pay for college for their kids, or save for retirement, or give their kids a better life.  And that’s not just a woman’s issue, that’s everybody’s issue.  I want Michelle getting paid at some point.  (Laughter and applause.)  We’ve got an outstanding former Secretary of State here who is also former First Lady, and I know she can relate to Michelle when she says, how come you get paid and I don’t?  (Laughter and applause.)  How did that work?  (Laughter.)

When women of color aren’t given the opportunity to live up to their God-given potential, we all lose out on their talents; we’re not as good a country as we can be.  We might miss out on the next Mae Jemison or Ursula Burns or Serena Williams or Michelle Obama.  (Applause.)  We want everybody to be on the field.  We can’t afford to leave some folks off the field.

So we’re going to have to close those economic gaps so that hardworking women of all races, and black women in particular can support families, and strengthen communities, and contribute to our country’s success.  So that’s why my administration is investing in job training and apprenticeships, to help everybody, but particularly help more women earn better-paying jobs, and particularly in non-traditional careers.  It’s why we’re investing in getting more girls, and particularly girls of color interested in STEM fields -- math and science and engineering -- (applause) -- and help more of them stay on track in school.

It’s why we’re going to continue to fight to eliminate the pay gap.  (Applause.)  Equal pay for equal work.  It’s an all-American idea.  It’s very simple.  And that’s why we’re going to keep working to raise the minimum wage -- because women disproportionately are the ones who are not getting paid what they’re worth.  That’s why we’re fighting to expand tax credits that help working parents make ends meet, closing tax loopholes for folks who don’t need tax loopholes to pay for.  It’s why we’re expanding paid leave to employees of federal contractors.  And that’s why Congress needs to expand paid leave for more hardworking Americans.  It’s good for our economy.  It’s the right thing to do.  No family should have to choose between taking care of a sick child or losing their job.  (Applause.)

And just as an aside, what’s not the right thing to do, what makes no sense at all, is Congress threatening to shut down the entire federal government if they can’t shut down women’s access to Planned Parenthood.  (Applause.)  That’s not a good idea.  Congress should be working on investing things that grow our economy and expand opportunity, and not get distracted and inflict the kind of self-inflicted wounds that we’ve seen before on our economy.  So that’s some of the things we need to do to help improve the economic standing of all women; to help all families feel more secure in a changing economy.

And before I go tonight, I also want to say something about a topic that’s been on my mind for a while, another profound barrier to opportunity in too many communities -- and that is our criminal justice system.  (Applause.)

I spoke about this at length earlier this year at the NAACP, and I explained the long history of inequity in our criminal justice system.  We all know the statistics.  And this summer, because I wanted to highlight that there were human beings behind these statistics, I visited a prison in Oklahoma -- the first President to ever visit a federal prison.  (Applause.)  And I sat down with the inmates, and I listened to their stories.  And one of the things that struck me was the crushing burden their incarceration has placed not just on their prospects for the future, but also for their families, the women in their lives, children being raised without a father in the home; the crushing regret these men felt over the children that they left behind.

Mass incarceration rips apart families.  It hollows out neighborhoods.  It perpetuates poverty.  We understand that in many of our communities, they’re under-policed.  The problem is not that we don’t want active, effective police work.  We want, and admire, and appreciate law enforcement.  We want them in our communities.  Crime hurts the African American community more than anybody.  But we want to make sure that it’s done well and it’s done right, and it’s done fairly and it’s done smart.  (Applause.)  And that’s why, in the coming months, I’m going to be working with many in Congress and many in the CBC to try to make progress on reform legislation that addresses unjust sentencing laws, and encourages diversion and prevention programs, catches our young people early and tries to put them on a better path, and then helps ex-offenders, after they’ve done their time, get on the right track.  It’s the right thing to do for America.  (Applause.)

And although in these discussions a lot of my focus has been on African American men and the work we’re doing with My Brother’s Keeper, we can’t forget the impact that the system has on women, as well.  The incarceration rate for black women is twice as high as the rate for white women.  Many women in prison, you come to discover, have been victims of homelessness and domestic violence, and in some cases human trafficking.  They’ve got high rates of mental illness and substance abuse.  And many have been sexually assaulted, both before they got to prison and then after they go to prison.  And we don’t often talk about how society treats black women and girls before they end up in prison.  They’re suspended at higher rates than white boys and all other girls.  And while boys face the school-to-prison pipeline, a lot of girls are facing a more sinister sexual abuse-to-prison pipeline.  (Applause.)  Victims of early sexual abuse are more likely to fail in school, which can lead to sexual exploitation, which can lead to prison.  So we’re focusing on boys, but we’re also investing in ways to change the odds for at-risk girls -- to make sure that they are loved and valued, to give them a chance.

And that’s why we have to make a collective effort to address violence and abuse against women in all of our communities.  In every community, on every campus, we’ve got to be very clear:  Women who have been victims of rape or domestic abuse, who need help, should know that they can count on society and on law enforcement to treat them with love and care and sensitivity, and not skepticism.  (Applause.)

I want to repeat -- because somehow this never shows up on Fox News.  (Laughter.)  I want to repeat -- because I’ve said it a lot, unwaveringly, all the time:  Our law enforcement officers do outstanding work in an incredibly difficult and dangerous job.  They put their lives on the line for our safety.  (Applause.)  We appreciate them and we love them.  That’s why my Task Force on 21st Century Policing made a set of recommendations that I want to see implemented to improve their safety, as well as to make sure that our criminal justice system is being applied fairly.  Officers show uncommon bravery in our communities every single day.  They deserve our respect.  That includes women in law enforcement.  We need more of you, by the way.  We’ve got an outstanding chief law enforcement officer in our Attorney General, Loretta Lynch.  (Applause.)  We want all our young ladies to see what a great role model she is.

So I just want to repeat, because somehow this never gets on the TV:  There is no contradiction between us caring about our law enforcement officers and also making sure that our laws are applied fairly.  Do not make this as an either/or proposition.  This is a both/and proposition.  (Applause.)  We want to protect our police officers.  We’ll do a better job doing it if our communities can feel confident that they are being treated fairly.  I hope I’m making that clear.  (Applause.)  I hope I’m making that clear.

We need to make sure the laws are applied evenly.  This is not a new problem.  It’s just that in recent months, in recent years, suddenly folks have videos and body cameras, and social media, and so it’s opened our eyes to these incidents.  And many of these incidents are subject to ongoing investigation, so I can’t comment on every specific one.  But we can’t avoid these tough conversations altogether.  That’s not going to help our police officers, the vast majority who do the right thing every day, by just pretending that these things aren’t happening.  That’s not going to help build trust between them and the communities in which they serve.

So these are hard issues, but I’m confident we’re going to move forward together for a system that is fairer and more just.  We’ve got good people on both sides of the aisle that are working with law enforcement and local communities to find a better way forward.  And as always, change will not happen overnight.  It won’t be easy.  But if our history has taught us anything, it’s taught us that when we come together, when we’re working with a sense of purpose, when we are listening to one another, when we assume the best in each other rather than the worst, then change happens.

Like every parent, I can’t help to see the world increasingly through my daughters’ eyes.  And on that day, when we were celebrating that incredible march in Selma, I had Ms. Amelia’s hand in one of my hands, but Michelle had Sasha’s hand, and my mother-in-law had Malia’s hand -- and it was a chain across generations.  And I thought about all those women who came before us, who risked everything for life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness, so often without notice, so often without fanfare.  Their names never made the history books.  All those women who cleaned somebody else’s house, or looked after somebody else’s children, did somebody else’s laundry, and then got home and did it again, and then went to church and cooked -- and then they were marching.  (Applause.)

And because of them, Michelle could cross that bridge.  And because of them, they brought them along, and Malia and Sasha can cross that bridge.  And that tells me that if we follow their example, we’re going to cross more bridges in the future.  If we keep moving forward, hand in hand, God willing, my daughters’ children will be able to cross that bridge in an America that’s more free, and more just, and more prosperous than the one that we inherited.  Your children will, too.

Thank you CBC.  God bless you.  God bless this country we love.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

Hi, everybody.  It’s hard to believe, but it was seven years ago this week that one of Wall Street’s biggest investment banks went bankrupt, triggering a meltdown on Wall Street and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.  And in the months that followed, millions of Americans lost their jobs, their homes, and the savings they’d worked so hard to build.

Today’s a different story.  Over the past five and a half years, our businesses have created more than 13 million new jobs.  The unemployment rate is lower than it’s been in over seven years.  Manufacturing is growing.  Housing is bouncing back.  We’ve reduced our deficits by two-thirds.  And 16 million more Americans now know the security of health insurance.

This is your progress.  It’s because of your hard work and sacrifice that America has come back from crisis faster than almost every other advanced nation on Earth.  We remain the safest, strongest bet in the world.

Of course, you might not know all that if you only listened to the bluster of political season, when it’s in the interest of some politicians to paint America as dark and depressing as possible.  But I don’t see it that way.  I’ve met too many Americans who prove, day in and day out, that this is a place where anything is possible.  Yes, we have a lot of work to do to rebuild a middle class that’s had the odds stacked against it now for decades.  That’s the thing about America – our work is never finished.  We always strive to be better – to perfect ourselves.

We just have to make the right choices.  And if Republicans want to help, they can choose, right now, to pass a budget that helps us grow our economy even faster, create jobs even faster, lift people’s incomes and prospects even faster.  But they’ve only got until the end of the month to do it – or they’ll shut down our government for the second time in two years.

Democrats are ready to sit down and negotiate with Republicans right now. But it should be over legitimate issues like how much do we invest in education, job training, and infrastructure – not unrelated ideological issues like Planned Parenthood.  We need to set our sights higher than that.  We need to reverse harmful cuts to middle-class economic priorities, close loopholes that benefit only a fortunate few at the top, and invest more in the things that help our entire economy grow.

There’s nothing principled about the idea of another government shutdown.  There’s nothing patriotic about denying the progress you’ve worked so hard to make.  America is great right now – not because of our government, or our wealth, or our power, but because of everyone who works hard every day to move this country forward.  Now Congress needs to work as hard as you do.

Thanks, and have a great weekend.

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everybody!  (Applause.)  Hello, hello, hello.  Everybody, please have a seat.  Have a seat.  Well, I just wanted to stop by and just say thank you, because we have in this audience some people who are doing outstanding work on behalf of criminal justice reform.  I want to thank Angie for the introduction.  I want to recognize a couple of members of Congress who are here, who have been great champions of this.  Congresswoman Frederica Wilson from the great state of Florida.  (Applause.)  And a great champion of this issue, he is working tirelessly in the Senate to advance some important legislation, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey.  (Applause.)

We also have former Attorney General and buddy of mine, Eric Holder.  (Applause.)  I know our current Attorney General I think had to leave a little bit earlier, but obviously is deeply involved in these efforts.  I want to thank Shane Smith and everybody at VICE for the great work and efforts that they’ve made in the production of what you’re going to be seeing here today.  (Applause.) And then there’s a guy named Al Sharpton over here.  (Laughter.)  What’s up, Al?  (Applause.)  He’s been working on these issues for a while.

America spends $80 billion a year keeping folks locked up.  We represent 5 percent of the world’s population, 25 percent of its inmates.  That’s not an indicator that we want to be the leader in. Keep in mind that I’m the father of two kids, and I care about them being safe and I am fiercely protective of them.  And I think it is important for all of us to recognize that in too many communities crime destroys lives and hope and opportunity, and we cannot diminish the impact of crime.  And I think everybody here recognizes that we have to have a criminal justice system that is effective and that prosecutes individuals in a fair way to ensure that we as a society are able to maintain peace and order and security.  That’s not something that anybody here would argue against.

But what we also know is that for too many individuals, particularly nonviolent offenders caught up in an environment in which drugs are pervasive and opportunity is lacking, the punishment does not fit the crime.

Too often, prosecutions, arrests are not being applied in a way that reflects our belief in equality under the law.  And the effects of this mass incarceration ripple through families and communities, especially communities of color in ways that are not just a problem of the here and now, but continue across generations.  So as a society, we have to acknowledge that there is something wrong when we are locking up this many folks with this kind of frequency, concentrated in a handful of communities in cities and towns and counties across this country.

And that’s why, in July, I visited the El Reno federal penitentiary in Oklahoma -- the first President, apparently, to have ever visited a prison -- because the people in these prisons are deserving of our attention.  They’re human beings with hopes and dreams, who in many cases have made profound mistakes but are American citizens nonetheless.  (Applause.)

It was interesting during that visit, we had a chance to meet with corrections officers and wardens and those who manage the system.  They have an extremely difficult and often dangerous job.  And we expressed our appreciation for what they do.  But they also recognized that we could be doing better in how we administer justice.

And I met with a group of prisoners, and what was striking was the degree to which so many of these young people -- and many of them were young; there were some older ones who were there, often because they had been serving time for mistakes they had made during their youth.  And I said at the time -- I think you may hear me say it in this program -- that they weren’t so different from me.  I made mistakes when I was young.  I didn’t always follow a straight path.  The primary difference between me and them was I had more of a cushion.  I had second chances.  In some cases, I had resources or I was in an environment in which when I made a mistake as a teen, that I could recover from it.

And these young people didn’t have any margin for error.  And that notion that as a consequence of youthful mistakes they could end up in a lifelong cycle of crime, where the prospect of them being able to recover and reenter society with gainful employment and the ability to be part of their children’s live and to be citizens appear remote -- the notion that that’s how we think our criminal justice system should work, that that should be the end result, there’s something un-American about that.

This is a country that believes in second chances.  And right now we’ve got millions of people who aren’t getting it.  So we’ve got to make sure that our criminal justice system works.  We’ve got to make sure that our criminal justice system keeps people safe.  We have to respect the incredibly difficult job that police officers have, and remind ourselves that they are protecting and serving us, and they have a right to go home too.  We have to recognize that there are prosecutors and judges throughout the system who want to do the right thing and feel compassion, and understand the human stories that are involved in this thing, but are bound by laws that all too often have been created because of politics or misguided theories as opposed to being based on the evidence and what’s required to keep people safe.

The bottom line is we’ve got to make sure that our criminal justice system does not perpetuate a cycle of hopelessness, but rather lifts people up.  And there’s no contradiction between us being concerned and vigilant when it comes to keeping our streets safe and our children safe, and also making sure that our system is fair and just and does not consign an entire class of people to a life on the margins.

And that means that we’ve got to support sentencing reform efforts, like the one that these members of Congress are supporting, so that we can more effectively use our resources to protect the public.  It means that we have to stay focused on prevention programs and alternatives like drug courts that can intercede with young people before they’re locked into a path from which they cannot recover.  It means that providing education and job training and focus inside of prisons is not being soft on crime; it is being smart about -- (applause) -- what is needed in order to make sure that people can recover from their mistakes.

And the good news is that people from federal, state and local governments, from law enforcement and the judiciary, from business and entertainment, and local communities are finding common ground on this issue.  What’s encouraging is this is one of the few areas where we’re seeing some really important bipartisan conversations taking place, and members of the faith community stepping up alongside civil rights advocates in really significant and meaningful ways.  And so I’m encouraged by it.

You represent the possibilities of shaping a coalition that makes this aspect of America more consistent with our ideals and our values.  And for your extraordinary work, I want to thank you. But recognize this is going to be hard work.  It is not going to be easy.  It is not going to happen soon.  We are just going to have to keep on pushing at the federal level, but also at the state and local levels.  We’ve got a great Attorney General currently, and we had a previous Attorney General who cared deeply about this.

But we need states attorneys and local prosecutors, and sheriffs, and departments all across this country to internalize these issues as well, because the federal system is just a very -- is a small portion of our overall criminal justice system.  And it’s not something that I can direct by fiat to change.  This is something that’s going to have to be a collaboration with everybody.

So that’s enough talking.  Thank you for the great work you’re doing.  And enjoy the show.  (Applause.)

Good afternoon, everyone.  It’s a real pleasure to be here.  I want to thank my friend Congresswoman Karen Bass for that wonderful introduction and for inviting me to speak this afternoon.  And, I want to thank Representative Butterfield and the leadership of the Congressional Black Caucus for bringing us all together.  I’d like to start by remembering and honoring a dear friend to all of us—the late Congressman Donald Payne.  He was Mr. Africa.  He helped reorient America’s relationship to the continent, and his leadership on African issues was so instructive to me personally.  He is sorely missed.

Since its founding, the CBC has raised to the forefront of American politics issues that haven’t always gotten the attention they deserve.  That’s particularly true when it comes to making Africa a foreign policy priority of the United States.  As the Senior Director for Africa on the National Security Council staff and then Assistant Secretary of State for Africa at the State Department during the Clinton Administration, I worked closely with members of the CBC to address humanitarian crises and to help bring greater stability and economic growth to troubled places in Africa. I saw firsthand the power of the CBC’s unwavering insistence that Africa receive the same consideration as any other region of the world.  So it’s good to be back with you all at the Africa Braintrust, and it’s great to have Congresswoman Karen Bass leading us today and through her tremendous work on the committee.

Over the years, your leadership and that of the CBC has built a bipartisan consensus that gets things done for Africa—from fighting apartheid to supporting PEPFAR, from confronting the genocide in Darfur, and easing the suffering in South Sudan to tackling the Ebola crisis in West Africa.

So, when President Obama made his fourth visit to sub-Saharan Africa this summer—and the first-ever by a sitting  President of the United States to Kenya, Ethiopia, and to the African Union—he was grateful to be joined by 16 members of the CBC.

And everywhere we went, we met inspiring Africans working for change in their communities—sometimes against incredible odds.  They’re entrepreneurs bringing solar panels to villages not connected to the electrical grid so that families have light to read by.  They’re women participating in the civic life of their country and fighting for the right of girls to be educated.  They’re religious leaders opposing radical ideologies and standing up for the peaceful teachings of Islam.

In President Obama, the people of Africa, and everyone here today, have a leader who understands that, in his words, and I quote, “Africa’s rise is not just important for Africa, it's important to the entire world.”  As he made clear, none of our major challenges globally—curbing climate change, promoting inclusive economic growth, ending violent extremism—can be met “without the voices and contributions of one billion Africans.”  That’s why, when President Obama hosted the first-ever U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit here in Washington last summer, he focused on strengthening our partnerships across the continent to achieve our shared goals for the future.

No longer do we view Africa through the prism of poverty and crisis.  We see Africa for what it is—a dynamic, diverse region brimming with economic potential and boundless possibility.  Africans are driving their own development, building their own capacity to feed and care for their people, and doing more to prevent and resolve African conflicts.  Accordingly, the United States has stepped up our commitments to Africa across the board.

Yet, at the same time, as we all know, serious challenges threaten to undermine Africa’s progress.  In his remarks at the African Union, President Obama said that, quote, “the most urgent task facing Africa today and for decades ahead is to create opportunity for this next generation.”  Today, I’d like to speak about the steps we’re taking, in partnership with Africa, to help create that opportunity by spurring economic growth that’s inclusive, fostering development, advancing peace and stability, and investing in Africa’s future.

First, we’re fully committed to driving economic growth across Africa.  As President Obama declared in Kenya, “Africa is on the move.”  Poverty rates are coming down.  The middle class is growing.  From Ethiopia to Cote d’Ivoire to Mozambique, Africa has some of the fastest-growing economies in the world.  But, we haven’t fully tapped this potential.  Trade between Africa and the United States is far below where it should be.  In 2013, total trade between the U.S. and all 49 countries of sub-Saharan Africa was only a little larger than our trade with the Netherlands.  So we’re taking steps to increase trade and investment with Africa, which supports jobs and growth in all our countries.

One of the most effective tools we have in this mission is AGOA, the African Growth and Opportunity Act.  I confess, this is a piece of legislation close to my heart.  I was deeply involved in the original passage of AGOA, and I want to thank Congresswoman Bass and the CBC for backing the 10-year renewal that Congress passed this summer.  This strong evidence of America’s long-term commitment to Africa will help spur sustained investments.

And, American businesses are eager to invest in Africa.  The first U.S.-Africa Business Forum was such a success—generating $33 billion in new commitments—that President Obama announced a second forum to be held here next year.  Through our Doing Business in Africa campaign, we’re working across the government to make it easier for American companies to strengthen their commercial ties to Africa.  And, through Trade Africa, we’re working with African governments to improve the business environment and remove barriers to trade.

With Power Africa, we’ve made a game-changing commitment to double access to electricity across sub-Saharan Africa.  Expanding access to power is one of the best ways we can support African businesses, which in turn unlocks more growth and more trade.  But, this isn’t like just flipping a switch—power plants and electrical infrastructure take time to build and bring online.  Like all bold ideas, successive administrations will have to carry this project forward.  We’re well on our way with new Power Africa projects slated to generate more than 20,000 megawatts of electricity.  We’re bringing down barriers to greater investment in Africa’s energy sector and have already facilitated deals that will create an estimated 4 million new power connections.

Entrepreneurship is the spark igniting Africa’s growth, and we’re directly supporting Africa’s dynamic entrepreneurs, nurturing their ideas and connecting them to resources.  At this year’s Global Entrepreneurship Summit in Nairobi, President Obama announced more than $1 billion in new funding from the U.S. government and the private-sector to support entrepreneurs—much of it focused on Africa.  Beyond that, we’re investing in women and young people and entrepreneurs who have the hardest time accessing financing and business networks.

Second, a commitment to maximizing impact and delivering results is central to this Administration’s approach to development.  In Africa, too many people, as you well know, still live in extreme poverty, eking out meager lives with their bare hands and sheer determination.  Empowering Africa’s most vulnerable is a cornerstone of our commitment to the region.

President Obama’s consistent focus has been on helping our development partners become self-sufficient.  Today, African countries are setting their own priorities.  We build our programs around African plans.  And, even as we continue to provide generous humanitarian relief—in Africa and around the world—we’ve moved far beyond simply responding to the latest crisis.
For example, we’re helping more than 40 African countries build their resilience to climate change now, before vulnerable communities have to face its worst impact.

Through President Obama’s Feed the Future initiative, we’re making sure smallholder farmers can both feed their families and sell their harvests at market.  Since 2010, we’ve invested more than $5.5 billion to improve food security in Africa and other regions.  In the past year, Feed the Future has helped nearly 2.5 million African farmers raise their incomes by using new technologies and land management practices.  Our nutrition programs have helped nearly 9 million African children get the nourishment they need to grow and thrive.  And, we hope to see Feed the Future institutionalized so that it continues to transform lives after President Obama leaves office.

Of course, no one can succeed if they’re too sick to work.  So, with our partners, we’ve developed country-led plans to build local health systems and to reduce suffering from preventable diseases.  We’re helping mothers and children become healthier, and making labor and delivery safer.  And, we’ve accelerated progress against HIV/AIDS, bringing us within striking distance of an AIDS-free generation.

Together with more than 45 countries, we’ve built a Global Health Security Agenda to improve our ability to prevent and contain devastating epidemics like Ebola.  Think back to this time last year when Ebola was spiraling out of control, weak health systems buckling under the strain.

But, thanks to the heroism of Ebola responders on the ground, the leadership of Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone, and American support to galvanize a massive international response, we have brought the disease under control.  As of last week, there were only 5 cases, and we will not stop until we get to zero.

In our interconnected age, outbreaks of disease or violence or instability are no longer local concerns.  They threaten entire regions and undermine global economic security.  So the third area I want to discuss is how we are advancing peace and stability across Africa.

I was honored to be President Obama’s personal representative at the joyous independence celebrations in Juba, South Sudan, just over four years ago.  So for me, like so many of us, South Sudan’s return to violence has been heart-wrenching.  That’s why President Obama convened an urgent summit of regional leaders in Ethiopia when he was there in July.  And, in no small part due to President Obama’s personal leadership, shortly after that meeting, regional leaders finally united behind a draft peace agreement.  A few weeks later, South Sudan’s leaders signed the agreement.  This is an essential first step.  But, the true test will now be in how President Kiir, Riek Machar, and their backers prove or disprove their commitment to peace.  At long last, they must prioritize the needs of the South Sudanese people—almost half of whom are dependent on international aid for survival—and they need to rebuild their country.  And, as they do, the United States stands ready to help the people of South Sudan achieve the lasting peace they deserve.

In Darfur, where war crimes continue, we’re working to end the horrible conflict by strengthening opposition parties and building a national dialogue that could, if implemented, improve the way Sudan is governed.  In Burundi, we’re working with our partners to suspend some assistance and supporting efforts by the East African Community, the AU, and the UN to broker an end to the crisis.

The United States and the international community are united today in responding to the crisis in Burkina Faso.  The junta should step aside and allow preparations for October elections to resume immediately.  The United States stands squarely with the people of Burkina Faso in rejecting this threat to their democratic progress, for which they have worked so hard.  And so, we are reviewing our assistance to Burkina Faso in light of evolving events.

Under President Obama, the United States has significantly increased our efforts to bolster peacekeeping capacity in Africa.  With the African Peacekeeping Rapid Response Partnership, we’re committing more than $100 million a year for the next several years to help our partners develop their capabilities—including lift capacity and medical expertise—to deploy rapid-response forces, prevent conflicts, and save lives.

With our partners, we’re facing down a growing terrorist threat.  In Somalia, we continue to provide training, equipment, and funding to support the African Union’s Mission to root out al-Shabaab and strengthen Somalia’s security institutions.  In the fight against Boko Haram, we are increasingly providing specialized advisors, training and equipment, and intelligence support to Nigeria and its regional neighbors.

We’re combatting wildlife trafficking—yes, to preserve Africa’s ecology, but also to shut down illicit flows of money to terrorist networks.  And, critically, we’re working with governments and community leaders to counter violent extremism before radicalization to violence can occur.  In Nigeria, Niger and Chad, we’re increasing civilian security and building communities targeted by Boko Haram.  We’re supporting efforts in Northern Mali to promote reconciliation and mitigate conflict, particularly in isolated communities.  And, we’re working with governments to responsibly address legitimate grievances that terrorists might exploit, as in Ethiopia, where American legal advisors are training police and lawyers to better uphold the rule of law.   Finally, I want to highlight our unprecedented investments in the future of Africa and its greatest asset, its people.

Nothing captures our commitment better than President Obama’s Young African Leaders Initiative, or YALI.  YALI offers emerging leaders in government, business, and civil society from across Africa the chance to develop their skills and connect with their peers—both in Africa and the United States.  Since 2010, the YALI network has grown to more than 145,000 members from every African nation.  By the end of this year, YALI Regional Leadership Centers will be open in Nairobi, Accra, Dakar, and Pretoria.  We’ve established practical training tools—courses on public speaking, networking, how to launch a startup—that are accessible online.  And next year, we are expanding the Mandela Washington Fellowship, which brings young Africans to train at American Universities.  We will double the number of African fellows—from 500 to 1,000—and begin sending young Americans to Africa, strengthening the connections between our peoples.

Even as we prepare the next generation to take up the mantle of leadership, we’re striving to ensure they inherit societies that are more free, more fair, and more just.   Societies that provide opportunity for all of Africa’s people.

So we champion democracy and good governance, peaceful and regular transitions of power, active civil societies and a robust free press—not because we have all the answers, but because healthy democracies are consistently more peaceful and more stable.  They are the strongest partners and the best able to provide for their people.

We highlight the damage corruption is inflicting on the continent, because Africa’s potential will never be fulfilled if elites are skimming off the top, or if leaders cling to power while they rob their people for personal gain.  Each time President Obama made that point on his latest trip, he was met with rousing applause.

The United States speaks out on behalf of Africa’s daughters and their right to grow up without being forced into early marriages, without being mutilated, without being abused.  We speak out for our African LGBT brothers and sisters and their right to equal treatment under the law.  We speak out for Africa’s minorities and the right to worship freely and pursue one’s dreams.

We make clear that every government has a responsibility to protect the human rights and the safety of all of its people.  And that, when traditions say that some group should be excluded or targeted or oppressed—then those traditions are wrong, and they have no place in the 21st century.  They do nothing but hold societies back.  So our investment in Africa’s future is both immediate and enduring.

We’re expanding our trade and investment while laying the groundwork for deeper cooperation in years to come.  We’re promoting sustainable development solutions that reduce hunger and combat health challenges while spurring the broad-based economic growth that can eradicate extreme poverty.  We’re taking steps to bolster our shared security today and tomorrow.  We’re supporting Africa’s youth and challenging Africa’s leaders to govern with an eye to the future.

“Africa’s rise is not just important for Africa, it's important to the entire world.”  Those are President Obama’s words, and that’s something all of you have known for quite some time.

Today, after four Presidential trips to the region, an historic summit with almost 50 African leaders here in Washington, signature economic and development initiatives that are opening doors for more people across the continent, many others now know it too.

We have more work to do.  More work to end old mindsets and address entrenched challenges, both in Africa and here at home.  But, this much is clear:  Under President Obama’s leadership, the United States is redefining the way we engage with Africa—not as a paternalistic patron but as permanent, equal partners.  And, I know that partnership will continue to benefit from the support, the wisdom, and the goodwill of everyone here for many, many years to come.  Thank you all very much.

MS. WILLIAMS:  So I’m just going to jump right in.  Mrs. Obama, why community college?

MRS. OBAMA:  Well, I was talking to a couple of the students who did the tour with me, and one of the things I pointed out is that when we talk about college, a lot of times people think four-year university.  And that’s not often the right path for many students.

But we’re fortunate enough to live in a country where you have so many options for pursuing your education beyond high school.  And community colleges are one of those phenomenal choices, and career in technical education is just amazing.

And Howard Community College is one of the stars.  I mean, the work that is being done here, the level of education, the connection to the hospital just nearby.  We went on a tour and just saw some phenomenal training.  The students were articulate and clear.  They had a clear pathway to what they wanted to do.  They were getting real training that could be applied right away.

The other thing about community colleges is that they’re affordable.  It’s an affordable pathway to getting your education.  And many of the students here were taking classes in high school, getting credit, and being able to start here maybe in their second year, saving money.

So particularly for kids who think that college is unaffordable, two-year colleges are the thing you should really look at.  Also, it gives you flexibility that you don’t get in a four-year college.  I mean, maybe you can’t travel away from home.  Maybe you need to stay nearby.  Maybe you’re just not ready for that big jump.  Maybe you don’t have any idea what you want to do -- and there are a lot of heads shaking here, right?  (Laughter.)  Well, maybe before you invest in a $100,000 degree, you want to take some time to get some training and education and exposure at your nearby community college.

So we’re really excited to be able to highlight it, to make sure that kids out there -- I have a senior who is in this process of figuring out what to do with the rest of her life.  I know you guys are nervous, and feeling pressure and tension.  But relax.  You live in America.  We’ve got a lot of great options, and we just want to make sure students know all the options that are available to them.

MS. WILLIAMS:  I’d love to pose the question to the rest of the panel.  President Hetherington, why would you say so?

DR. HETHERINGTON:  Well, Mrs. Obama, you did such a fine job of articulating why.  It’s kind of difficult to figure out what you missed because you really did such a lovely job of that.

One of the things that you talked about was the affordability of community colleges.  And the other thing is that you have a quality education at a community college.  So you’re getting a quality education at an affordable prices.  The programs here -- many of the students here will be transferring to four-year institutions.  So we have agreements with four-year schools that you can map out what you need to do your first two years to get your associate’s degree, and then have a seamless transfer to your junior year in college.

And I’ll tell you a little story.  I am a community college graduate.  And when I was a senior in high school, I really wanted to go to Penn State.  Really, really wanted to go.  And my parents were very encouraging; they said, “That’s great, but we don’t have any money.”  I was the oldest of six children.  And so they had just started up a community college near where I lived, and that’s where I got my start.

I did my first two years at a community college, and then I entered as a junior, all my credits accepted.  And I saved my parents thousands of thousands of dollars.

So that’s one message -- because I hear over and over from young people, “How am I going to afford this?  I can’t do it.”  But the community college is a very viable option.

MS. WILLIAMS:  Trecya, what influenced your decision?

MS. JORDAN:  So I’m a Howard County student, like all of you.  I’ve grown up here forever.  I, like Mrs. Obama and President Hetherington said, my main focus was financial situations, like I’m sure everyone here has gone through.  Also, I know that HCC has a really good -- how do I say this -- a really good curriculum, there we go.  And I know it’s competitive to any four-year school.  Like, I’m in the nursing program, this is my second year.  I’ll be graduating in May with my RN, and I know that after I leave here I’ll have a job.

So it’s not like I’m going to a four-year university and I’m staying four years.  It’s only two years and I’ll have -- be making $50,000 when I get out of school, and helping my parents pay back my tuition.

MS. WILLAIMS:  So let’s jump into the first question from the audience.  We have Anthony, with a question to Mrs. Obama.  Where’s Anthony?

Q    Right here.

MRS. OBAMA:  Hey, Anthony.

Q    Hello.  So I’m from Howard High School.  And my first question for you is:  When considering colleges, how do you know which one is the best choice for you?

MRS. OBAMA:  We are talking about this in my household every night, every night.  And there’s really no magic formula.  I mean, it is a very individual decision.

So I would just encourage you to do your research.  And what does that mean?  It means if you have an opportunity to visit colleges, go on campuses, sit in on some of the courses, talk to professors, talk to alums, talk to students.  That’s the way you’re going to get a feel for what’s it like to be in this community; does it feel like it fits me.

There’s no one answer.  And the thing that I want you all to remember is that there are thousands of choices out there.  I mean, a lot of times seniors, students get caught up in the notion that there’s the one school I have to go to, it’s a brand name, it looks like this, and if I don’t get in my life is over.  And the fact of the matter is, is that we live in a country where there are so many options for getting a great education.  So don’t get locked in on one particular sort of view of yourself.

And I would encourage people to try to get onto campuses if you can.  And that may not be an affordable option, but more and more colleges are offering virtual tours.  We’re actually in the process of recording a virtual tour.  You’ve got organizations like Essence that are trying to do as much to get kids the information they need to know about what colleges are like, and doing the college tours.

So read up on that.  Go on websites.  Do your research.  And then in the end, it’s kind of just what do you feel here?  It’s kind of going to be a gut decision.  And you’ll be fine.  You’re going to be okay.  (Laughter.)

MS. WILLIAMS:  Our next question if from Katherine (ph), and it’s also to Mrs. Obama.

Q    Hello.  Nice to meet you all.  My name is Katherine, I’m from Oakland Mills.  And my question is:  When is a good time to start filling out applications for scholarships and the FAFSA?

MRS. OBAMA:  The sooner the better.  And I want everybody to jump in, too, so feel free.

But what I encourage students to do, what we’re doing in my household, is make a plan.  College is something that -- the process of applying to college requires some forethought and some planning.  So what does that mean?  You’ve got to know your deadlines.  You’ve got to figure out little things like do you need to take the SATs, or the ACTs, or the PSATs, or whatever.  Have you taken them, do you know the deadlines for them?  When do you have to apply?  Where can you sit for them?  How much do they cost?  Can you afford to take them?

You have to start answering those questions ahead of time.  You’ve got to figure out what kind of prerequisite courses you need to take.  Do you have your letters of recommendation lined up?  Do you need to write a personal statement?  All that stuff is going to be different for every school that you apply to, so you need to do the research and figure out what the schools you want to go to -- what are they asking for, when do they need it.

And make a plan, and put it on a calendar.  Because I know -- hey, look, I know you guys.  Time slips away and you look up and it’s like, oh, my God, did I miss the deadline?  So you really have to be diligent about laying out that plan for yourself.

And again, I know we’re going to talk about this, but FAFSA, FAFSA, FAFSA.  Those financial aid forms -- you’ve got to fill those out.  The deadlines for them vary from every state, but they’re available beginning in January.  And this is the ticket to gaining access to millions of dollars in scholarships provided by the government.  But you’re only eligible if you fill out those forms.

So that’s one of those things you’ve got to put on your plan, right?  You’ve got to find out -- if you haven’t heard of FAFSA, if your college counselors aren’t talking about it -- which I’m sure many of them are -- find out about this stuff.  And then look online.  Ask questions about financial aid and scholarships.

You’ve got to dig for this stuff.  A lot of times it’s not just going to pop up and fall in your lap.  You’ve got to ask questions.  And I know that the president would welcome any high school student to come here and ask questions, and talk to the admissions officers to get some tips and things like that.  So it’s a plan.

DR. HETHERINGTON:  And I would add to that -- that’s an excellent answer -- I would add that -- make sure when you decide where you want to go that your financial aid officer is your new best friend, because you can get a lot of free information.  You don’t have to pay for this.  But keeping in contact with them -- because besides the federal aid, many colleges and universities have their own aid through their endowments through their foundation, so there’s other scholarships that you can apply for.

And financial aid officers also know what scholarships could be available that are tied into your major course of study.  So check online.  I would say that’s your first step for deadlines, as Mrs. Obama said, especially for FAFSA.  The government is doing everything it can to make it easier.  I think it’s the next year’s application you’ll be able to use what they call prior-prior information, which will be making it easier for parents to apply.  They’ll already have their tax forms; it’s not like they have to wait for them to go through the process.

So things are getting better, but online and financial aid offices -- many of them, like Howard Community College, have financial aid workshops that we advertise.  And so you’re here, you’ll be hearing about that.  So I hope you’ll come.

MS. WILLIAMS:  Esther (ph) has a question for president Hetherington.

DR. HETHERINGTON:  Hi, Esther.

Q    Hello.  I actually have two questions.

DR. HETHERINGTON:  Oh, boy.  I might need help.

Q    So the first one is, what colleges are available to attend with a low GPA?  And will it be harder to find a college when you have a low GPA?

DR. HETHERINGTON:  Well, you know, they vary.  All colleges will vary.  And I know some people are concerned about maybe their SAT scores aren’t where they need to be.

Usually what will happen is that many of the colleges will post, like, a minimum GPA that they’re looking for.  But they also look at other variables when it comes to your application.  It’s not solely GPA.  They’re looking at other things that you bring as far as your whole package.  So I think that’s one thing that you have to be mindful of.  And talking to the admissions officer where you’re planning to go is one thing.

Now, for community colleges, community colleges are open admissions.  So basically, the GPA, unless you’re applying for a select program, will not come into play.  So you can start out at a community college -- we do have courses at community colleges that help if you need to get like extra help in math or English to bring you up to college level.  They’re called developmental or remedial classes.  We have those.  But as I said, for community college, open admissions.  So it won’t be as much of a challenge.

I’ll mention the SATs, too, because I know a lot of students are concerned about that; they feel like, oh, my SAT is not high enough.  Well, many schools -- many colleges are moving away from using the SATs, even Ivy League colleges.  Again, they’re looking at that whole package.  They want to see everything that you bring.  What kind of student are you going to be, is there a fit, are you going to enhance the campus environment.

So don’t be too worried about that.  But you are in your senior year now?  So you’re going to work to get that GPA higher, right?  (Laughter.)  Okay.

MS. WILLIAMS:  Jaylen (ph) has a question for President Hetherington, as well.

Q    Hello.  My question is, what are some of the factors that truly help a college applicant stand out beyond just what the college requires you to send in?

DR.  HETHERINGTON:  Okay, a lot of that -- again, I would take a look at the particular college, and even talk to them.  Why not talk to the people that are going to do the assessment of your admissions application?  Because then that will help you in highlighting certain important factors that you have in your portfolio, in your background.

And sometimes it depends on the major that you’re going in.  So maybe the major you’re going in -- maybe you’ve done volunteer work in your community about that and you can talk about that.  Maybe you’ve had a leadership role in your high school that you can talk about.  That’s why getting involved is so important, because that shows that you’re stepping out from the crowd, you’re different from everybody else.  You’re going to be bringing 100 percent-plus.

And so those are the things -- you have to look at your own resume.  What is it that you bring?  And I would suggest that you talk to your high school counselor and ask for help.  So you know, here’s what I think I should be doing -- because they help students.  And you all have high school counselors -- and even your faculty at your high school can be of help to you.

Also, as I said, check with the college and keep in mind whatever your major is.  If you’re not sure about the major, that’s okay, too.  A lot of people aren’t sure about what they’re going to major when they start at college or university.

MRS. OBAMA:  And I just want to add that colleges are looking for your authentic story.  So don’t be afraid to point out your struggles, your challenges, the things you had -- have had to overcome.  A lot of times people think that colleges are looking for that perfect student who is the head of this, and has the straight GPA, and was on every extracurricular, was the captain of the football team.

But colleges are looking to diversify their populations.  They know that creating a good academic environment means that you need a lot of voices from a lot of different people with many, many different experiences.  So don’t downplay the parts of you that make you unique.  You want to play that up.

And also, remember that when you’re applying, the admissions committee is trying to figure out, can you write?  Can you spell?  Can you follow directions?  Are you neat?  So don’t underestimate that.  Spell-check your stuff.  Check the grammar.  (Laughter.)  Make sure that it makes sense.  Have somebody else proofread it, because I know -- I can’t completely proofread everything.  I miss the mistakes if I’ve read it too much.  Have somebody -- a friend, a parent, a teacher -- review your application to check for those little things.

So know that you don’t want to take that stuff for granted, because they’re trying to -- when they read your personal statement, they’re trying to figure out what kind of writer you are, how creative are you, do you have a voice, do you have a unique way that you express yourself.  All that stuff is important in the process, as well.

MS. WILLIAMS:  Trecya, I want to put you on the spot a little bit.  What were some of the things in your college application process that you think put you over the edge?  What were some parts of your story that you played up, aside from your GPA and things like that?

MS. JORDAN:  Well, to Esther, I actually didn’t have a good GPA.  So I applied here because I knew I didn’t -- nobody had to look at me like that.  So I think that you have to show, yes, you made a mistake, but you show how you came back from that mistake.  It’s best to show that I can do better, I’m doing better, I’m improving, I know how that I messed up.  But for them to see your improvements and you to tell them “I improved,” that’s a good thing.  Because they don’t want anybody that is just mediocre.  They want you to go above and beyond.  And regardless if you’re going to community college, a four-year university, show that I’m going to take the extra mile, I’m going to go the extra step.

MS. WILLIAMS:  And Mr. Snelgrove, how important for you as an employer is it to see a student’s progress throughout the years, and like Trecya was saying, that progress that they make over the years?

MR. SNELGROVE:  Well, when I look into this audience, I bet about half of them were born at Howard County General Hospital.  (Laughter.)  And many of their parents probably work here.  When I look at students who are coming in and doing their preceptorships with us, we look at their ability to demonstrate perseverance, to overcome the struggles that may have brought them to the table.

But if they have character, if they demonstrate compassion and integrity and empathy to the patients and families that they serve, then the sky is the limit for these students coming out of the community college system.  Where you start is not where you end.  It’s up to you.  And we help you along the way by giving you offers of scholarships and giving you challenges to demonstrate that you can great employees.  And I look forward, frankly, to seeing many of you staying in Howard County and coming to work with us in the future.

MRS. OBAMA:  Can you talk a bit about the relationship between the hospital and the college?  Because this is also important for students in considering community colleges -- the strengths, the opportunities that often don't exist with four-year colleges.

DR. HETHERINGTON:  Well, many of our students in the health fields have to do their clinical placements.  And they love working at Howard County General because they can -- they don't have to move their car, for one thing.  (Laughter.)  Parking is an issue.  They can just walk right across and work at the hospital.  And they know that they have an opportunity once they complete their associate degree, nursing degree, get their RN, that they can be employed.  And it’s a great chance for you to shine for people who will possibly be your future boss, right?  So that's -- (laughter) -- hint, hint.

MR. SNELGROVE:  She already has.

DR. HETHERINGTON:  So that's a real plus that we have.  And we have relationships with -- in terms of the health sciences throughout the region.  So it’s Howard County and the region.  So our students are working throughout the region, not only in nursing, but all the other health programs that we have.

We do a similar kind of thing with other career industries.  Take cybersecurity, which is very big in this area.  We have students doing their internships with cyber companies.  We actually have cyber companies coming in to assess our curriculum to make sure that it’s current.  And it’s reviewed every 18 months because things are changing so rapidly in that field.  And they love our students.  They come in and they talk to our students, talk to them about making sure you do everything right so that when time comes for a clearance, you've been a good person, so that keeps you in check.

So the hospital has been a wonderful partner with us, and we are so appreciative of the support that we get from the hospital.

MR. SNELGROVE:  And if you think of a hospital, they're like a small community.  We're not just doctors and nurses.  We're accountants.  We're nutritionists.  There are so many different fields that you can pursue in a hospital.  And where you start is just the beginning.

So I would encourage you to come over and visit us sometime, to walk through the facility -- not as a patient, but as a visitor.  (Laughter.)  And you can talk to lot of our staff.  And I’m sure they would love to help you understand what it’s like to be a nurse; what it’s like to be a doctor.  And you know that some of these paths are a number of years in the future, but you know there’s a lot of support on the way.

And the good thing is, health care is not going away, right?  Health care will be with you your entire life.  So there is going to be a lot of jobs with the bubble of the baby boomers coming in and retiring.  Howard County, we're kind of aging in place a little bit.  So there’s going to be tremendous opportunities for you to stay in your own community where you grew up -- amazing community -- and work at your local hospital.  We’d love to have you.

MRS. OBAMA:  So for those students who think school is not for me -- I really want to get out there and work, I really want to start living in my own apartment, paying my own rent -- I don't know why you're rushing into that.  (Laughter.)  But there are students out there who are trying to get there fast.  Community college is one of those ways to do it.

You come in, you get your training.  You train for a job that oftentimes actually exists.  You get internships and make connections.  You do it in a short period of time at a low rate of cost; affordability is key.  Why would you not explore this?  So just think about all the kids out there who graduate from high school or stop.  Or they think, I don't like high school, so they don't bother to create a plan for themselves for after high school because they think school is not for me.  This is why we need to educate all of our young people on why high school is not where you end; it is just the next step to being able to have the freedom and the control in your life that you want because you’ll have the training and education to get a job and pay your bills, and do all the things that you think you want to do now but you can't afford because you're a kid and you have no money.  (Laughter.)  Get an education.  And there are many, many ways to do it.

MS. WILLIAMS:  Out next question is from Lucy (ph) to Mrs. Obama.
Q    Hello, my name is Lucero Espinal, and I’m senior at Oakland Mills High School.  And my question is, connecting back to what Mrs. Obama said about educating others, what can we do in our community to help serve others on pursuing another higher education?

MRS. OBAMA:  Keep reaching back.  You all are mentors today.  Mentors don't look like me and the presidents here.  They really are you.  Because if you think of who your little cousin, your little brother, the neighbor down the street, who they're looking up to, they're actually looking up to you.  You all are the coolest things in their center, in their world, because you all are the big kids.

So realize that you have the potential to impact somebody in your community’s life.  So talk to them about these options.  Be that mentor.  Be that person that they can call to say, what should I do after high school?

All these questions that you're asking us, you will be experts at this stuff in a year from now.  So use that expertise and reach out to folks in your family, in your community, and start talking to them young.  Start talking to your nephews and nieces and little brothers and sisters about how important it is to graduate from high school, and how much fun it is, and how many opportunities are out there waiting for them.  Do it now.  Be that role model for them, okay?  That's how we're going to get back to number one in the world in education.  And we're not going to do it with folks -- everybody trying to be a baller or a rapper or a reality TV show person.  That's just not going to cut it.  This is the ticket.  This is the best investment that you can make in your future, and it’s the most certain.

And even if you want to do all that really cool entertainment kind of stuff, you need something to fall back on. And nursing, medical professions, you will always have a job -- and a job that pays really well, and a job that allows you to have flexibility.  (Laughter.)  Yes!

MS. JORDAN:  Best profession ever.  And it’s fun.  And you learn something new every day.  It’s not like you're stuck in your -- whatever career that you pick.  It’s an opportunity for you to be taught every day.  Every day you go to work, every day you come to school, it’s something different.  Every patient is different.  How you handle situations, it’s different.

DR. HETHERINGTON:  Tell them what you want to do long term.

MS. JORDAN:  Long term, I would like to be a nurse anesthetist, which is getting my CRNA, or now, a DNP in anesthesiology.  So this is just my beginning.  I would like to work at Howard County General.  (Laughter.)

MRS. OBAMA:  This is an excellent job interview right here.  (Laughter.)

MS. JORDAN:  I feel really, really, really blessed right now.  I want to work at Howard County General and go to University of Maryland to do their BSN to DNP program.  Knock it out.  That’s another thing -- once you start school, don’t finish -- don’t stop, keep going.  Because once you stop, it’s harder for you to start back.  Just go straight through.

MS. WILLIAMS:  Very well said.  Our next question is from Priya (ph) to President Snelgrove.

Q    Hi, I’m Priya from Centennial High School, and my question is, will I be able to find a job after college?

MR. SNELGROVE:  I think you’ve heard -- health care is in the midst of significant change, and we don’t just take care of people when they come into the hospital anymore.  We’re actually trying to keep this community healthy, well and disease-free.  And in order to do that, there are so many jobs in health care outside of the hospital.  You could work for a skilled-nursing facility, a home-health agency.  You can work as a case manager, making sure that people who are discharged of the hospital get back home and get to their maximum level of function.  You’re going to have jobs for the rest of your life.  You don’t have to worry about that.

And the fact is, you can move -- as we talked earlier -- from one place to the other and find great diversity in your career.  So I think you can rest assured that health care is here to stay.  And fortunately now, many Americans are now insured because of Obamacare that weren’t just a few years ago, and that’s wonderful.

MS. WILLIAMS:  And our last question is from Miriam (ph) to Mrs. Obama.

Q    Hi, I’m Miriam and I’m from Oakland Mills High School.  And I wanted to know, what tips do you give your daughters about the college experience?

MRS. OBAMA:  I think the President was talking about this the other day.  You give tips, do they take it?  (Laughter.)  Mmm, we don’t know, we just talk and talk and talk and talk.

The main thing that I’m trying to say to all seniors out there, because I run into seniors all the time and I know how you all feel.  I mean, this is just -- I’m sorry.  (Laughter.)  I’m sorry that this is a time in your life where you feel pressure and you feel like everything is weighing on you and, ugh, I know you all are tired.  But this, too, will pass.  And you guys are going to be fine.  Just as I said earlier, make sure you have a plan.  And you’ve got to plan for life, too.  I mean, that’s not just about getting into college.

I mean, the President and I, we’re still planning.  You never stop planning.  We’ve got to figure out, what are we going to do with our lives when we’re done here.  We’re almost done, what are we going to do now?  What do you do after this?  You have to make a plan, figure out a timeline.  We can’t just walk out of the White House and -- we’ve got to find a place to live, we’ve got to figure a few things out.  (Laughter.)

So it continues.  So get in the practice of making those plans.  Do your research.  Ask for help.  And I will say that again:  Ask for help.  Because when you get to your program, whether it’s a two-year college or a four-year university, you’re going to need to make new adjustments when you get there.  And what you’re going to have to do is make a plan, ask for help.  Nobody expects you to know this stuff on your own.  That’s why you have counselors and advisors and mentors.  That’s why there are students like Trecya who are making themselves available to be an ear.  But you’ve got to seek them out and actually take the help or ask for the help, because nobody will know you need help unless you say, I’m drowning, I’m afraid, and I’m scared.  And it’s okay -- you’re supposed to be.  And you’re going to feel that way for a good another 10, 20, 30 years.  I’m sorry.  (Laughter.)

But it will be okay, because you all seem like really bright young people.  You’re here for a reason.  And you’re going to find a place that’s going to work for you.  And you will look back on this time and you’ll wonder what you were so worried about.  So it will be okay.  All right?  You guys will get through, you’ll get into good programs and good institutions.  You always have to work hard.  So that’s the only thing -- you can’t be afraid of hard work, because in order to be successful in anything, it never just comes, it never just happens.  Sometimes it looks like it’s easy for some people -- oh, they’re rich or they’re famous, or they’re this or they’re that.  No, everybody who is successful is working really hard a lot of the time.

And so don’t be afraid of hard work and don’t be afraid to fail, because that you will do, too.  You are going to fail a lot in life.  But as Trecya said, it’s not about the failure, it’s about the resilience -- how you bounce back, how you recover.  That’s the character that the President mentioned that all employers are looking for.  They’re looking for character.  They’re looking for stamina.  They’re looking for honesty.  They’re looking for things that you can’t measure in a test score or solely in a grade.

So character is big.  But then that means you have to be individuals of character, and sometimes that’s hard to do.  But set that as part of your plan and goal.  Be a person of high character and high quality -- somebody who is not willing to shy away from tough things.  And that will shine through.  Those are the qualities that matter, and many of you probably already have them, right?  You’re just going to get better at.

So I wish you all luck.  You guys are going to do great.

MS. WILLIAMS:  I think that sums it up quite nicely.  Thank you so much, everyone.  (Applause.)

Thank you all for being here today.  A special thanks to Mrs. Obama for joining us.  Thank you, Howard Community College for hosting us.  And we hope you have a great day.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, these three gentlemen really don’t need any introduction.  I think all of you are familiar with the incredible story of three high school friends who were getting together, two of whom had served in uniform on behalf of the United States Armed Forces -- thinking that they were just going to have a fun reunion up in Paris and ended up engaging a potential catastrophic situation, and pinning down someone who clearly was intent on doing a lot of harm to a lot of people and inflicting terror on the French people.

Because of their courage, because of their quick thinking, because of their teamwork, it’s fair to say that a lot of people were saved and a real calamity was averted.

And the French people have already bestowed on them the highest honor that they can -- the Legion of Honor -- at a ceremony presided over by President Hollande of France.  I had an opportunity to talk to him, and he told me that he could not have been more grateful for what these three outstanding young Americans did.

And I just wanted to make sure that, having talked to them on the phone right after the event, that I had a chance to shake their hands in person and to tell them what I think they’ve heard from a lot of people, which is they represent the very best of America, American character.  And it’s these kinds of young people who make me extraordinarily optimistic and hopeful about our future.

And I want to thank each and every one of them and wish them well.  I’m glad to see that Spencer, apparently his hand is in pretty good shape and making real progress.  And he intends to continue to pursue his work in medicine and caring for people.  Anthony is interested in sports medicine and therapy.  And Aleksander, as soon as he is finished on “Dancing with the Stars” -- (laughter) -- plans to get into law enforcement.

Whatever they do, they’re going to do it well.  And we just want to say thank you to them for not only saving so many lives, but also for making America look so good.

Thank you.  Come on, we’ll get one good picture with everybody.

MRS. OBAMA:  Thank you all so much.  (Applause.)  Thank you all.  Rest yourselves.  Good afternoon, everyone.  And welcome to the White House.  Yay!  (Applause.)  It’s still kind of exciting, right?  I still love to say that.

I want to start by thanking Assembly Vice-Chair Elvi Gray-Jackson for that wonderful introduction and for her tremendous leadership -- absolutely.  (Applause.)  And thank you for hosting my husband.  He has talked about his visit endlessly.  (Laughter.)  He says we're going back, so I hope that me and the girls will come and visit.  I hope so.  (Applause.)  But thank you for all that you're doing.

I also want to recognize everyone at the National League of Cities and the Department of Health and Human Services for their tremendous work on this initiative and so many others.  You all are amazing.  We couldn’t do this without you.  Keep up the great work.  I love you all.

And of course, most important of all, I want to thank all of you for everything that you’re doing through Let’s Move! Cities, Towns and Counties.  Because of your passion and your dedication, in just three short years, 500 communities across America have joined Let’s Move! Cities, Towns and Counties -- 500.  (Applause.)  The means that nearly 80 million Americans are now living in a Let’s Move! City, Town or County.  And that is one in four people in this country -- one in four people.  (Applause.)

And I have to say, that is a breathtaking achievement.  But frankly, those numbers don’t even begin to capture the impact that you all are having on kids and families all across this country.  Let’s just take a moment to think about what a day in the life of a child in a Let’s Move! City, Town or County might look like, given all the work that you've done.

Start in the morning.  That child wakes up, takes a ride or walk to school on a bike path or sidewalk that you paved.  Take Knoxville, Tennessee for example.  They have a Walking School Bus program and a Kids Can Bike! program that gets kids from underserved areas pedaling all over the city.  Now, when that child arrives at school -– or maybe at a summer nutrition site -– she might eat a healthy breakfast, and then later, a healthy lunch.  Why?  Because you expanded your school meal programs.  And in New Bedford, Massachusetts they’ve served more than 50,000 meals in the month of July alone.

So now it’s time for recess.  That child might run around in a nearby field because of a joint-use agreement that you signed.  And then she might head to an afterschool program, maybe a sports league that you started.  And maybe later on she goes home to her parents where they cook her a healthy dinner using the MyPlate guidelines from a poster that you put up somewhere in your city.

Then it’s later on in the evening, after dinner.  And then her family can head to a local park for a little more exercise -- a park that you refurbished.  That’s what they’re doing in Jersey City, where they’re transforming an abandoned brownfield site into the largest park in the city.  That’s the kind of impact all of you are having.  From the moment our kids wake up in the morning until they go to bed at night, you all are giving them countless opportunities to lead healthier lives.

And believe me, I know that this has not been easy.  I know it’s not easy.  I know that all of you are dealing with tight budgets and competing priorities.  And so often, the public conversation frames these issues as an either-or proposition -- either our tax dollars go to “soft” things like playgrounds and healthy school meals, or they go to things like jobs and economic development.

But we all know that this is a false choice.  So many of you have told us that when you work to build healthier communities, companies take note, because that’s where they want to set up shop.  They want to create jobs in vibrant communities with strong families and healthy employees.  That’s the kind of ripple effect that you all are having.  And today, we’re seeing that effect in every corner of the country.

See, back when we first launched Let’s Move! in 2010 -- sounds like a long time ago; my kids were down here -- (laughter) -- we knew that there was no one solution to the problem of childhood obesity.  So we brought together folks from every sector of our society.  We called on parents and doctors and educators, our business leaders, our faith leaders, our local officials –- everyone with a stake in our kids’ future.

And together, over the past five years, we have built what we call a movement on behalf of our kids’ health.  We have truly changed the culture.  We have changed the culture in this country in the way we live and eat.  We’ve changed it.  And you see it every day in your communities.  Fast food places are serving apples and skim milk in their kids’ meals.  Convenience stores are selling fruits and vegetables in places that were once food deserts.  Folks are wearing those fitness bracelets, counting every step.  (Laughter.)  Companies are actually rewarding employees for eating right and exercising.

And let’s just take a look at the numbers.  Today, 1.6 million kids attend healthier daycare centers right when they’re at the very beginning of life.  Nearly 9 million kids attend Let’s Move! Active Schools, where they get 60 minutes of physical activity every day.  And of course, because of our new nutrition standards –- standards, by the way, that 95 percent of schools are successfully meeting -– more than 30 million kids are eating healthier school breakfasts and lunches.  There’s also a new survey that shows that 90 percent of Americans actually believe in having these kinds of standards for the food we feed our kids.

And when we take all of that together, all these changes, they’re starting to add up.  Child obesity rates have finally stopped rising for the first time in a very long time.  And obesity rates are actually falling among our youngest children.  So I’d just -- absolutely.  (Applause.)

So I want you all to know and to not be mistaken -- what we’re doing together is actually working.  We’re hitting a real tipping point on this issue.  And numbers like 80 million are a sign that we’re right on the cusp of what can be described as historic change.  But only if we keep on moving forward –- only.  And not just moving forward in the coming months or years, but in the coming decades.

And that’s really where all you come in.  Because everything that you’re doing right now on the ground, you all are playing a long game on this issue.  You are today, with the work that you’re doing, building the infrastructure we need to continue our progress for generations to come.  Because that playground, that hiking trail that you fought for, that you scraped together money to build -– that’s going to be there long after you leave office.

And with every healthy meal and snack you provide for kids in your community, you’re not just nourishing them today, you are shaping their habits and their tastes for the rest of their lives, and you’re influencing what they’ll serve their own kids decades from today.

And now that we finally know what works and we finally see some progress, this just isn’t the time for us to pat ourselves on the back and say job well done.  No, no, this is the time to double down.  And I’ve said this to all of our partners -- doubling down.  I just want us to get that concept in our heads.  (Laughter.)  Because when nearly one in three kids in this country is still overweight or obese, this job is far from done.

And that’s really my challenge to all of you today.  I want you all to truly double down on your efforts.  If you haven’t yet earned all five gold medals, let’s earn them.  And then I want you to bring other cities, towns and counties along with you.  Share good ideas and best practices.  That’s one of the reasons why we brought you here today –- so that you can challenge and learn from each other.  And once you’ve gotten those five gold medals, dig a little deeper and become an All-Star, and help other cities, towns and counties become All-Stars, too.

We all need to work together on this issue, because we know that issues like child nutrition, it’s not about politics.  This is about giving our children a fair shot in life.  It’s about ensuring that they have everything they need, everything we can do in our power to help them fulfill their boundless potential.

Those are the stakes.  And as you work toward these goals, I want you all to know that I will be with you every step of the way.  I’m in.  I may be heading into my home stretch as First Lady, but I intend to stick with this issue for the rest of my life, and I hope that all of you will, too.  (Applause.)  Because that’s what it’s going to take.

So I’m in.  I’m really in deep.  And today, I want to ask you all, are you in?  Are you ready for this?  (Applause.)  Good.  (Applause.)  Because of you, we’re off to an outstanding start.  And I’m thrilled to hear that you guys are game for more.  I know we can do this.  We’re already doing it.

And I’m grateful for everything you all have done.  So proud.  So proud to see this milestone being hit.  And I can’t wait to see everything that you all will accomplish in the months and years and decades ahead.

So enjoy the rest of your time here.  Thank you again.  Thank you, thank you.  And continue to lead with the passion and dedication that you’ve shown thus far.

Take care.  God bless.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Randall, and thank you to everybody here at the Business Roundtable for having me today.  I’m just going to say a few words and then hopefully spend a lot of time taking your questions.

Seven years ago today was one of the worst days in the history of our economy.  If you picked up the Wall Street Journal that morning, you read that the shocks from AIG and Lehman were spreading worldwide.  The day before, stocks had suffered their worst loss since 9/11.  In the months after, businesses would go bankrupt, millions of Americans would lose their jobs and their homes, and our economy would reach the brink of collapse.

That’s where we were when I became chief executive.  Here’s where we are today:  Businesses like yours have created more than 13 million new jobs over the past 66 months -– the longest streak of job growth on record.  The unemployment rate is lower than it’s been in over seven years.  There are more job openings right now than at any time in our history.  Housing has bounced back.  Household wealth is higher than it was before the recession.  We have made enormous strides in both traditional energy sources and clean energy sources while reducing our carbon emissions.  And our education system is actually making significant progress with significant gains in reducing the dropout rate, reading scores increasing, math scores increasing.  And, by the way, more than 16 million people have health insurance that didn’t have it before.

So this progress is a testament to American business and innovation.  It’s a testament to the workers that you employ.  But I’m going to take a little credit, too.  It’s a testament to some good policy decisions.  Soon after we took office, we passed the Recovery Act, rescued our auto industry, worked to rebuild our economy on a stronger foundation for growth.  Other countries in some cases embraced austerity as an ideology without looking at the data and the facts, tried to cut their way out of recession.  The results speak for themselves.  America has come back from crisis faster than almost every other advanced nation on Earth.  And at a time of significant global volatility, we remain the world’s safest, smartest investment.

Of course, I will not be satisfied -- and we as a country shouldn’t be satisfied -- until more working families are feeling the recovery in their own lives.  But the fact is that what I’ve called middle-class economics has been good for business.  Corporate profits have hit an all-time high.  Slowing health care prices and plummeting energy costs have helped your bottom lines.  Manufacturing is growing at the fastest clip in about two decades.  Our workforce is more educated than ever before.  The stock market has more than doubled since 2009, and 2015 is on pace to be the year with the highest consumer confidence since 2004.  And America’s technological entrepreneurs have continued to make incredible products that are changing our lives rapidly.
Now, you wouldn’t know any of this if you were listening to the folks who are seeking this office that I occupy.  (Laughter.)  In the echo chamber that is presidential politics, everything is dark and everything is terrible.  They don’t seem to offer many solutions for the disasters that they perceive -– but they’re quick to tell you who to blame.

I’m here to say that there’s nothing particularly patriotic or American about talking down America, especially when we stand as one of the few sources of economic strength in the world.

Right now, we’ve got the chance to build on progress that we have made and that is acknowledged worldwide.  We have a chance to grow the economy even faster, create jobs even faster, lift people’s incomes and prospects even faster.  We just have to make some sensible choices.  And I’m going to focus on one particular example.  America’s next fiscal year is almost upon us, which means that Congress has about two weeks to pass a budget.  If they don’t, they will shut down America’s government for the second time in two years.

Democrats are ready to sit down and negotiate with Republicans right now, today, as we speak.  But it should be over legitimate questions of spending and revenue –- not unrelated ideological issues.  You’ll recall that two years ago Republicans shut down the government because they didn’t like Obamacare.  Today, some are suggesting the government should be shut down because they don’t like Planned Parenthood.  That’s not good sense and it’s not good business.  The notion that we’d play chicken with an $18 trillion economy and global markets that are already skittish all because of an issue around a women’s health provider that receives less than 20 cents out of every thousand dollars in the federal budget, that’s not good policymaking.

The last time Republicans shut down the government, it cost our economy billions of dollars; consumer confidence plummeted.  I don’t think anybody here thinks that’s going to be good for your business.

I’ve always believed what our first Republican President, a guy from my home state named Abraham Lincoln, believed –- that through government we should do together those things that we can’t do as well by ourselves.  Funding infrastructure projects.  Educating the best workforce in the world.  Investing in cutting-edge research and development so that businesses can take that research and take some risks to create new products and new services.  Setting basic rules for the marketplace that encourage innovation and fair competition that help a market-based economy thrive.  Creating a safety net that not only helps the most vulnerable in our society but also frees all of us to take risks and protect against life’s uncertainties.  And welcoming, rather than disparaging, the striving immigrants that have always been the source of continued renewal, economic vibrancy and dynamism in our economy.

So my hope is that Congress aims a little higher than just not shutting the government down.  That’s a good start, we’d like them to achieve that, but I think we can do better.  We can actually do some things to help the economy grow.  After the last shutdown, both parties came together and unwound some of the irrational cuts to our economy and military readiness that’s known as sequester.  That agreement expires in two weeks as well.  And for those of you who are not steeped in federal budget terminology, sequester basically are automatic topline cuts that don’t discriminate, don’t think through what are good investments and what is waste.  And if we don’t reverse the cuts that are currently in place, a lot of the drivers of growth that your companies depends on -- research, job training, infrastructure, education for our workforce -- they are going to be reduced effectively at a time when other countries around the world are racing to get ahead of us.  On the other hand, if Congress does reverse dome of these cuts, then our own budget office estimates it would add about half a million jobs to our economy next year alone, about 0.4 percent to GDP.

And keep in mind that we can afford it right now -- all the things I said at the front in terms of the recovery that we’ve made.  We’ve also reduced the deficit by two-thirds.  Right now it’s about 2.8 percent of GDP.  We’ve reduced our deficit faster than some of those countries that pursued strict austerity policies and weren’t thinking about how to grow the economy.

And so we are well positioned without adding to the deficit.  I want to repeat -- since I took office, we’ve cut the deficit by more than two-thirds.  And the good news is we might actually be moving beyond some of the stale debates we’ve been having about spending and revenue over the past several years if what economists and people who are knowledgeable about the federal budget are listened to as opposed by this being driven by short-term politics.

People in both parties, including some of the leading Republican candidates for President, have been putting out proposals.  Some I agree with, some I don't.  I’ll give you one example, though.  You've got two leading candidates on the Republican side who have said that we should eliminate the carried interest loophole.  Now, there’s disagreement in this room around that.  But I will tell you that keeping this tax loophole, which leads to folks who are doing very well paying lower rates than their secretaries, is not in any demonstrable way improving our economy.

On the other hand, if we close the tax loophole, we could double the number of workers in America’s job training programs.  We could help another 4 million students afford college.  These are sensible choices that if you were running your business and you took a look at it, you’d make that decision.  Well, America should too.

And this is an example of how we can maintain fiscal responsibility while at the same time making the investments that we need to grow.

So the bottom line is this:  Seven years ago, if we had listened to some politicians who said we could only cut our way to prosperity, the fact is we’d be worse off today.  If we listen to them now, then we're going to be worse off tomorrow.

I hope that you will talk to your friends in Congress, Democrats and Republicans alike.  As Congress flirts with another shutdown, remind them of what is at stake.  We will have some disagreements sometimes.  I do not expect to get 100 percent of what I want in any conversation, including with my wife.  But I do expect us to stay focused on why we're here, which is to help the American people and businesses like yours and your workers do better.  That's our job.  We're not supposed to be impeding progress.  We're supposed to be advancing progress, accelerating it.

And if our leaders can put common sense over ideology and the good of the country before the good of the party, then we’ll do just fine.  Despite the perennial doom and gloom that I guess is inevitably part of a presidential campaign, America is winning right now.  America is great right now.  We can do even better.  But the reason that I’m so confident about our future is not because of our government or the size of our GDP or our military, but because everybody in this country that I meet -- regardless of their station in life, their race, their religion, the region they live in -- they do believe in a common creed that if people work hard in this country, they should be able to get ahead.  And I know that's what you believe.  That's the values that you try to instill in our companies, as well.  My hope is, is that that decency, that hard work, that common sense is going to be reflected here in Washington.

So with that, let me take some questions.  And I’m going to start with Randall, because since he volunteered for what I’m sure is a thankless job of being head of the -- (laughter).

Q    I’ll get it going here.  I know there are a lot of other questions for you.  But Leader McConnell was just here a little earlier, and he gave us all a cause to exhale, talking about the budget and seemed confident that we would get a place where we would have a budget.  And in the context of that he spoke about how split government can actually provide opportunities for getting big things done that might be hard to get done otherwise.  And he caused a head-snapper with all of us when he gave you a very strong compliment over --

THE PRESIDENT:  My head is snapping.  (Laughter.)  What did I do?

Q    Trade Promotion Authority, and how you worked that and you worked it very aggressively.  And, by the way, all of us in here -- Mike Froman, I don’t know if he’s here, and Jeff Zients are very complimentary of the work that was done there.

So now you have the authority to get a trade deal done.  It’s going to have to come back to Congress, and so forth.  Talk to us a little bit about your view of the opportunity to get the Trans-Pacific deal done.

THE PRESIDENT:  I am confident that we can get it done, and I believe we can get it done this year.  The trade ministers should be meeting again sometime in the next several weeks.  They have the opportunity to close the deal.  Most chapters have been completed at this point.  And I’m confident that it will, in fact, accomplish our central goal, which is to make sure that we’ve got a level playing field for American businesses and American workers in the fastest-growing region of the world.

There are going to be unprecedented protections for labor standards and environmental standards, but also for IP protection, also for making sure that when any company here makes an investment, that they’re not being disadvantaged but are instead being treated like domestic companies for commercial purposes.

And so the notion here is, is that we’ve got 11 nations who represent the fastest-growing, most populous part of the world buying into a high-standards trade deal that allows us and your companies on a consistent basis to compete.  And the good news is, is that with a lot of tough negotiating and a lot of pushing and pulling -- mainly by Mr. Froman, but occasionally I get called in to lob a call into one of my counterparts -- I think that we’re going to get this done.

Now, the key then, once we close the negotiations and we have an agreement, is to get TPP through Congress.  We got it through.  I will return the compliment of Mitch McConnell worked very hard and very creatively to get it done.  We should not assume, though, that because the authority was done, that we automatically are going to be able to get TPP done.

And I’ll be honest with you, the reason is that the politics around trade are tough.  And I said this even in the run-up to getting TPA authority.  A lot of Americans, when they think of trade, think of plants in their hometown or nearby shutting down and moving to Mexico or China, and American manufacturing and good-paying jobs being lost.  That’s the image of trade.

And the argument that I have made consistently to Democrats has been that there may have been some mistakes made in past trade agreements in not, for example, having enforceable labor and environmental provisions that put American companies that are doing the right thing at a disadvantage; that there weren’t enough safeguards for intellectual property and the abuses of state-owned enterprises and subsidies that companies may have been involved with.

But that’s the status quo now.  And if you want to correct those things, we’ve got to raise the bar.  I didn’t fully persuade all my Democratic colleagues, because the politics are tough.  And I was willing to take my case to the Democratic caucus and to talk to my friends in organized labor and say that we can’t look backwards, we’ve got to look forward.  We’re going to have to compete in these areas.

Here’s the concern politically, is that I think within the Republican Party some of the same impulses that are anti-immigration reform, some of the same impulses that see the entire world as a threat and we’ve got to wall ourselves off, some of those same impulses also start creeping into the trade debate.  And a party that traditionally was pro free trade now has a substantial element that may feel differently.

And so the BRT, I think -- you know, you got to put Engler to work over there.  To their credit, both Mitch McConnell and John Boehner I think are on the right program here, but they’re going to need some help potentially with their membership, because the closer we get to political season, the tighter some of these votes get.  I will tell you this, though:  I am confident that if I’m presenting an agreement to Congress, that it will meet the commitment that I made that this would be the highest standard, most progressive trade deal in American history.  It will be good for American business and American workers.

Q    Hi, Mr. President.  Thank you for being with us.  I wanted to ask you about cybersecurity.  You put an executive order in place earlier this week because of the issues we have with information-sharing and with liabilities.  And we at the BRT are very supportive of the legislation that has passed the House and is now in progress in the Senate.  And I wanted to just get your thoughts on how you’re thinking about this, and also with the upcoming visit of the President of China about cybersecurity and our relationship with China.

THE PRESIDENT:  This is an issue that is not going away.  It is going to be more and more important, and it is going to be very challenging.  It’s challenging in part because the Internet itself, the architecture of it was not intended to carry trillions of dollars of transactions and everybody’s personal information.  It was designed for a couple of professors to trade academic papers.  And so the kind of security that we were looking for was not embedded into the DNA of the Internet.

And the vulnerabilities are significant and they are being exploited by not just state actors, but also non-state actors and criminal gangs at an accelerating pace.  So this is something that from a national security perspective and from a business perspective we’re going to have to continue to concentrate on.

One of the big issues that you mentioned, Maggie, that we’re focused on, is this encryption issue.  And there is a legitimate tension around this issue.  On the one hand, the stronger the encryption, the better we can potentially protect our data.  And so there’s an argument that says we want to turbocharge our encryption so that nobody can crack it.  On the other hand, if you have encryption that doesn’t have any way to get in there, we are now empowering ISIL, child pornographers, others to essentially be able to operate within a black box in ways that we’ve never experienced before during the telecommunications age.  And I’m not talking, by the way, about some of the controversies around NSA; I’m talking about the traditional FBI going to a judge, getting a warrant, showing probable cause, but still can't get in.

So we’ve created a process around which to see if we can square the circle here and reconcile the need for greater and greater encryption and the legitimate needs of national security and law enforcement.

And I won’t say that we’ve cracked the code yet, but we’ve got some of the smartest folks not just in government but also in the private sector working together to try to resolve it.  And what’s interesting is even in the private sector, even in the tech community, people are on different sides of this thing.

With respect to China, this will probably be one of the biggest topics that I discuss with President Xi.  We have repeatedly said to the Chinese government that we understand traditional intelligence-gathering functions that all states, including us, engage in.  And we will do everything we can to stop you from getting state secrets or transcripts of a meeting that I’ve had, but we understand you're going to be trying to do that.  That is fundamentally different from your government or its proxies engaging directly in industrial espionage and stealing trade secrets, stealing proprietary information from companies.  That we consider an act of aggression that has to stop.

And we are preparing a number of measures that will indicate to the Chinese that this is not just a matter of us being mildly upset, but is something that will put significant strains on the bilateral relationship if not resolved, and that we are prepared to some countervailing actions in order to get their attention.

My hope is, is that it gets resolved short of that, and ultimately the goal should be to have some basic international framework that won’t be perfect because there’s still going to be a lot of non-state actors and hackers who are very good, and we're still going to have to have good defense and still have to be able to find the fingerprints of those and apprehend them, and stop networks that are engaged in cybercrime.

But among states, there has to be a framework that is analogous to what we’ve done with nuclear power because nobody stands to gain.  And, frankly, although the Chinese and Russians are close, we're still the best at this.  And if we wanted to go on offense, a whole bunch of countries would have some significant problems.  And we don't want to see the Internet weaponized in that way.  That requires I think some tough negotiations.  That won’t be a one-year process, but we’d like to see if we can -- if we and the Chinese are able to coalesce around a process for negotiations, then I think we can bring a lot of other countries along.

Q    And we will work with you on that too.

THE PRESIDENT:  Good.

Q    Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Ursula.

Q    Thank you for being here.  It’s also good to be reminded occasionally of some of the progress that we’ve made in like a complete sentence.  So I think thank you for that, as well.  And some recent ones -- TPA is good; even the Iran deal, really good.  Health care standing up.  All good.  The place that we haven’t made a lot of progress but that's really important for business and business progress is on tax and tax reform.

And what we're getting to now is I think almost kind of like being backed in the corner.  So since you can't get a grand deal, we're starting to talk about sub-deals.  And the sub-deals in and of themselves are destructive, in the Business Roundtable’s view, to the grand deal, which is total tax reform or comprehensive tax reform.  So can you help us think about how we should negotiate this duality that we're in right now?  And where do you think we're going to end up?

THE PRESIDENT:  We put forward a proposal early on that I’m confident I could sell to this group.  Not everybody would be thrilled but I think I could argue that over time would be good for business, because essentially what we proposed was the traditional framework for tax reform:  close loopholes, lower rates.  We’d address international taxation in ways that currently put American businesses at a disadvantage and would allow for a repatriation, but would not simply empty out the Treasury and would generate enough revenue that we could actually also pay for some infrastructure.

And our hope was that we’d get some nibbles on the other side.  To his credit, Paul Ryan expressed real interest in discussions and negotiations.  But your previous speaker, Mitch McConnell, has said that he is not interested in getting tax reform -- comprehensive tax reform of that sort done.

So there’s still work being done.  We're still in conversations with Mr. Ryan.  And I know that Senator Schumer and others have still been working on the possibilities of a fairly robust package.  But ultimately you're going to have to have the leader of the Senate majority party bought in to try to get this done.

I understand why tax reform is elusive -- because those of us who believe in a simpler, fairer, more competitive tax framework in the abstract sometimes look at our bottom lines and say, I don’t know, that deduction is helping us pretty good here.  And even if this organization has been supportive, there are other business organizations in town that have some pretty strong influence over the Republican Party that haven’t been as wild on it, partly because their view is, is that the only kind of tax reform that’s acceptable is one that would also lower all rates, regardless of its effect on the deficit.  That’s just not something that is viable.

So we’re going to keep on working on it.  My suggestion would be that the BRT continue to encourage Speaker Boehner, Paul Ryan, Mitch McConnell to come up with an ambitious package.  And what I can assure you is, is that the White House will take it seriously.  We don’t expect that everything in our original package would go forward.

But the one thing that we couldn’t do -- and I get concerned sometimes that what is labeled as tax reform ends up just being cuts, you’re not closing the loopholes, and as a consequence it’s a huge drain on the Treasury.  We then suddenly are accused of running up the deficit to help your tax rates, and we’re not doing enough to help grow the economy and help ordinary workers.  So that’s the one direction we can’t go in.

Yes, Tom.

Q    Thank you for being here.  I’d love to hear your thoughts on energy policy.  I know we talk a lot about all of the above, but I think what’s really changing kind of in an unprecedented way here recently are technology revolutions that are occurring either in the production of energy, or perhaps, more importantly, in the use of energy, that gives Americans I think a way to play offense in what has been a set of unprecedented challenges.  What’s your thoughts on that?

THE PRESIDENT:  Tom, I think you described it well.  I am much more optimistic about our ability to get a handle around energy that is good for our economy, good for business, good for consumers, good for job creation, and maybe saves the planet in the process.  I’m much more optimistic about that now than I was when I started as President.

And a good example is just when you look at what’s happened with solar.  I mean, we’re not quite at Moore’s law yet, but the pace at which the unit costs for solar energy have gone down is stunning.  We’ve seen not quite the same pace, but similar progress around wind.  Our natural gas production is unprecedented.  And I have been very supportive of our natural gas production as being not only important to our economy but also geopolitically.  It’s a huge recipe for energy independence as long as we get it -- the methane discharge issues -- right.  And I think there are ways of doing that with sound science.  So that’s on the production side.

And, as you said, on the utilization side, all of you are -- there’s not a company here that is not producing significantly more product with less energy than you were just 10 years ago, and certainly than you were 20 years ago.  Everybody here has seen the power of tracking utilization, identifying waste, and timing issues around when is energy expensive, when is energy cheap.  So there’s enormous progress on the commercial side.  And then individual households now with things like Nest or the equivalence, we’re able to fine-tune our energy usage in ways that we just haven't seen before.

And then you’ve got the whole transportation sector in which we’ve continued to make significant progress in Detroit as well as upstarts like Tesla.  There are still some distribution network issues around the transportation revolution, although companies like UPS are doing a great job I think already experimenting with their fleets.  So that’s all good news.

I would say that the big challenge now, if we’re going to realize all the potential here, is to work with utilities so that they have a business model in which they’re making money while seeing this change in distribution patterns and grid, because I think that there’s still some legitimate economic issues there that have to be sorted through.  And it’s tricky because it’s a patchwork system; we don’t have one national grid, obviously.

The second thing is, investment in basic research needs to continue.  Battery technology is greatly improved, but we still haven't seen all the breakthroughs that I think that we can make with battery technology that would make a huge difference in storage.  And that’s an exciting area for development.

And then I would urge the BRT and some of you individually, as companies have already done this, view the issue of climate change and the Paris Conference that’s going to be coming up at the end of this year as an opportunity rather than as a problem.  Because this is coming; it’s coming generationally.  If you talk to your kids or my kids, they are much more attuned to this issue.  Consumers are going to be caring about it more and more.  The environmental effects that we’re seeing -- I’m going to be calling Jerry Brown later today just to talk about California wildfires.  Some of you may have read the snowpack in the Sierra Nevada -- lowest it’s been in 200 years.  The flooding problems that we’re already seeing in places like South Florida; it’s just during high tide.  Suddenly billions of dollars of property is under water.

So this is coming.  And for us to be out ahead of it and to think about how our ingenuity and our science can solve these problems is going to give us a jump on everybody else.  So there is a pledge that some members of the BRT have organized around supporting a strong Paris agreement.  I would encourage you to sign up on that and look for opportunities on this.  And that includes companies that have been in the traditional fossil fuel area.  Because if you know how to do oil and gas well, you can figure out how to do solar well, you can figure out to make money doing it.  You can figure out how to create efficiencies that help your bottom line.

And what we’ve tried to do with the Clean Power Plan is to give states flexibility, understanding everybody has got a different energy mix.  So, down south, we approved the first nuclear plant in a generation, basically, because we think nuclear needs to be part of that package.  I’m a big believer that there are going to be different ways to skin the cat on this thing.  We just have to set a baseline in which all of us understand the direction we need to go.  Instead of us spending a lot of time fighting science, let’s go with science.  We usually do better when we’re on the side of facts and evidence and science.  Just as a general rule, that’s proved to be our strength as Americans.

Jim.

Q    If I could just turn back to China for a second.  There are a lot of issues we’ve got to sort out, and you mentioned a couple of them -- cybersecurity, their feelings about TPP, their own economy.  Their inward turn in the name of creating a consumer economy has had some protectionist elements that we don’t like.  I think, though -- I think many in this room would like to see some kind of positive outcome from this summit, as well, that underlines our mutual benefit if we can figure out some of these things and find a way for the world’s two biggest economies to see a path forward as well as all the issues we’ve got.

Do you have a comment on the tone you’re going to try to set with the President, and roles that we could play in supporting both the -- managing our relationship as well as finding a future for it?

THE PRESIDENT:  My tone with respect to China has been pretty consistent.  It doesn’t jump up and down depending on where the polls are.  My view is that China should be and will continue to be an economic competitor; that we need to make sure that we are reaching an understanding with them about our presence as a Pacific power, but that it is in our interest for China to continue what has been dubbed a “peaceful, orderly rise.”  I think that’s good for the world.

China is a big place with a lot of people.  And we’re better off if those people are eating and have shelter and are buying consumer goods, rather than starving and writhing on the streets.
And so what I’ve consistently communicated, first to President Hu when I came into office, now President Xi, is our goal is to have them as a partner in helping to maintain a set of international rules and norms that benefit everybody; that in fact, we’re what facilitated China’s rise.  They were essentially riding on our backs for the last 30 years because we were underwriting peace, security, the free flow of commerce, international rules in the financial sector.

And as they have matured, what we’ve said to them is, with power comes responsibility, so now you’ve got to step up.  You can’t act as if you are a third-world country and pursue protectionist policies, or engage in dumping, or not protect intellectual property at a time when we’re now -- when you’re now the second and, eventually, probably the first-largest economy in the world.

You can’t simply pursue an export-driven strategy, because you’re too big.  You’re not going to be able to grow your economy at the same pace over the next 20 years that you did in the last 20 years.  Once your economy reaches a certain size, there’s not enough global market to absorb that, which means that you’ve got to start thinking about transparency within your own economy, and how are you setting up a safety net so that workers have some cushion, and in turn, are willing to spend money as opposed to stuffing it in a mattress.

You’ve got to be concerned about environmental issues, because you can’t breathe in Beijing.  And that spills over for all of us.  And as a large country with a powerful military, you can’t go around pushing your little neighbors around just because you’re bigger, but you have to start abiding by a basic code of conduct and a set of rules, because ultimately, you will be advantaged by everybody following the rules.

And I think in some areas, the Chinese understand this; I think in other areas, they don’t.  I think in other areas, they still see themselves as the poor country that shouldn’t have any obligations internationally.  And in some cases, they still feel that when we call them on issues like their behavior in the South China Sea, or on intellectual property theft, that we are trying to contain them as opposed to us just wanting them to abide by the same rules that helped create an environment in which they can rise.

The good news is that our fates are sufficiently intertwined, that -- and in many ways, they still need us a lot more than we need them; that I think that there are going to be continuing areas in which they move, as long as we don't resort to the kind of loose talk and name-calling that I notice some of our presidential candidates engage in -- people you know.  (Laughter.)  It tends not to be constructive.

So bottom line, though, is, Jim, I think this summit will be useful.  I think there are going to be a lot of outcomes around things like energy and climate change, around improvements in how they deal with investors that will show constructive progress.  I think our military-to-military conversations have been much better than they were when I began office.

The one thing I would suggest that the BRT can do -- two things.  Number one -- and I think I’ve said this to some of you in the past -- when your companies have a problem in China and you want us to help, you have to let us help.  Don't tell us on the side, we’ve got this problem, you need to look into it, but then -- but leave our names out of it because we want to be punished kind of thing.

Typically, we are not effective with the Chinese unless we are able to present facts and evidence of a problem.  Otherwise, they’ll just stonewall and slow-walk issues.  So if we're seeing problems in terms of the competitive environment there, in terms of protecting your IP, in terms of unfair competition that runs afoul of understanding the principles that have already been established, you've got to let us know and let us be your advocates.  That's important.

The second thing I think everybody here should do is not fall into the same trap that we fell into around Japan in the 1980s, which is somehow China is taking over just like Japan was taking over, and we're in inevitable decline.  This whole argument -- I’m just going to go on a quick rant here for a second -- (laughter) -- this whole notion that somehow we're getting out-competed, out-dealt, out-this, out-that, we're losing, we're in -- nobody outside the United States understands what we're talking about.  (Laughter.)

I mean we’ve got problems.  We’ve got issues.  Our biggest problem is gridlock in Washington and that's just not making some sensible policies.  But overall, our cards are so much better than everybody else’s.  Our pool of quality businesses and talent, and our institutions, and our rule of law, and how we manage and adapt to new and changing circumstances, and our dominance in knowledge-based industries -- nobody matches us.  And we attract -- the best talent around the world still wants to come here if we’d just let them come.

So I think it’s important for business voices to point out every once in a while America is in the driver’s seat if we make some smart decisions.   And that's not a partisan comment, that is just the facts.  There is not a country out there, including China, that wouldn’t look at us with envy right now.

And so our problem is not that China is going to out-negotiate us, or that Mr. Putin is sort of out-strategizing us.  Anybody taken a look at the Russian economy lately?  That's not our problem.  Our problem is us, typically.  We engage in -- and I’m being generous when I say “we,” -- (laughter) -- but we engage in self-inflicted wounds like this potential government shutdown.  It’s unnecessary.

I’ve got time for a couple more questions.  Good to see you.  How you doing?  How you doing, Ed?  How is everybody back home?

Q    Very good.

THE PRESIDENT:  Good.

Q    Along that, in that same vein, looking earlier this summer, the expiration of the Ex-Im Bank authorization.

THE PRESIDENT:  Speaking of self-inflicted wounds.

Q    Understand.  And part of the ongoing discussion, debate here in Washington, the Senate has attached a reauthorization, as you know, to the transportation bill, which is now down at the House.  And on Monday the Roundtable sent a letter to the leadership on both sides in Congress pointing out really the benefits of reauthorization, that some of those get lost in this debate.  Because really, it’s been characterized as only benefitting a few companies, which ignores the thousands of people who are basically employed by our suppliers across the country, and the impact -- positive impact that has, as well as it’s a net generator revenue for the governor -- for the government.  And we have plans to have further discussions later today and this week with leadership in the House.

Do you have any -- we had a good discussion with your team this morning.  Do you have any insights that you could share with us that would help us in getting that reauthorization?

THE PRESIDENT:  It is mind-boggling that this wasn’t reauthorized a year ago.  And it is this weird reversal in which the principle opponents are the tea party caucus in the Republican Party.

Somehow, Ex-Im Bank has become this cause célèbre of what some of the presidential candidates called “crony capitalism.”  And what’s ironic is obvious -- I think some of you know the backstory.  There was I think a member of this organization that kind of started this whole thing because they were upset about some planes being sold to a competitor on a route, and suddenly this caught fire in the right wing Internet.  And it’s just hard to explain.

Look, Ed, I had a group of small businesses, ranging from, what, four people to a couple of hundred people, talking about how they use Ex-Im.  This is the only way that they can get into these markets.  And as you said, Ex-Im doesn’t cost the government.  This is not a money loser for us.  And I don’t have to tell Emil (ph) or Jim how important it is.  I keep on telling them I expect a gold watch from them because it seems like every time I take a foreign trip I’ve got to sell some turbine or plane.  (Laughter.)

And I was concerned about Jeff’s announcement that jobs that were here in the United States are now going to be overseas because we don’t get this done.  But that’s true for the supply chain; it’s also true for some smaller companies that use Ex-Im directly.  It’s not just that they’re part of the GE or Boeing supply chain, it’s that they’re selling tea to a country and this is the only mechanism they have to be able to make those sales.

The good news is McConnell and Boehner both say they want to get it done.  As you said, we’ve already shown there are sufficient votes for it in the Senate, and we actually think there are sufficient votes for it in the House.  I would concentrate your attention on House Republican caucus members.  And I think you have to flood the zone and let them know this is important.  And that includes, by the way, talking to individual members who, in their districts, potentially have companies that are being adversely affected as long as Ex-Im is frozen.

But my expectation is it gets done during the course of these budget negotiations.  And we’re going to push as hard as we can to get it, though.

Q    Mr. President, thank you for being here today.  One of the issues that we deal with and we talked about last time you were here was regulations.  And one of the areas that the Business Roundtable is very focused on these days is the ozone rule, which October 1, your administration will be coming out with a recommendation associated with that.

The Business Roundtable position is that we need to maintain the 75 parts-per-billion.  To lower that standard when technology doesn’t exist and when communities are already advancing toward the 75 goal -- if you lower it to 70, it’s going to introduce another 200 counties in this country into non-attainment, which basically is a “we’re not open for business.”  And that’s our concern.  Do you have any thoughts on that, or what the administration’s plans are in that regard?

THE PRESIDENT:  There’s a lot of complicated technical issues involved in this, but I’ll try to simplify it as much as possible.

Number one, we’re under a court order to do this.  So I think there may be a misperception that the EPA can do whatever it wants here.  There were lawsuits brought under the previous administration that continued into my administration.  We went before a judge.  We actually, I think properly, got some additional time, because there was the notion that we were going to lower standards a few years ago, and then immediately get new data and force everybody to lower them all over again.  And we said, let’s just do this one time in a sensible way so that people can plan.

But we’ve got some legal constraints.  This is not something that just popped out of my head full blown.  And so I always enjoy seeing the advertising for “Obama’s ozone plan.”  The ozone rules date back to when I was I think still in law school, before I had any gray hair.  And there are some fairly stringent statutory guidelines by which the EPA is supposed to evaluate the standards.  So the EPA is following the science and the statutes as best as it can.

We are mindful that in some cases, because of the nature of where pollutants are generated, where they blow, that this can create a really complicated situation for certain local jurisdictions and local communities, and some states and counties end up being hit worse than others.  And we're trying to work with those states and those communities as best we can taking in their concerns into account.

So I guess the bottom line is this is -- you can legitimately go after me on the clean power plant rule because we -- that was hatched by us, and I believe that we need to deal with climate change and -- so we can have a lengthy debate about that.

And on ozone, this is an existing statute and an existing mechanism, and we are charged with implementing it based on the science that's presented to us.  And that's what we're trying to do, but we're taking this input into account.  I recognize some of the concerns.

I will say this -- last point I’ll make on this.  Even with the costs associated with implementing the ozone rule, when you do a cost-benefit, the amount of lives saved, asthma averted and so forth is still substantially higher than the costs.  Now, that doesn't necessarily resolve all the concerns that people may have about local costs being borne, whereas the savings are spread out more broadly.  And those are legitimate economic issues that have to be considered.  And the EPA has been listening to I think every stakeholder there.

But I think what you’ll see in the analysis overall is -- we don't issue a regulation where the costs are not lower than the benefits.  And if you look at the regulations we’ve generally put forward, the costs are substantially lower than the benefits that are generated.

Okay.

Q    Yes, thank you, Mr. President.  Many of us are interested in Cuba.  And the opening there has been positive.  There is a lot of issues to get to full normal relations.  Just how do you see that path happening?  And what’s the future of that in your opinion?  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  I don't think it’s going to be an overnight transformation, but I am convinced that by re-engaging Cuba, re-engaging the Cuban people, that we are creating the environment in which a generational change and transition will take place in that country.  And already you're seeing conversations taking place about how is Cuba going to accommodate an influx of tourists, and how do they think about the Internet and open communications in order to be able to participate in the modern economy?

And that inevitably then leads to questions about can you hire -- can a company hire a Cuban directly, a foreign investor, as opposed to going through the government?  And over time, that creates space for personal freedom and I think a long-term political transition.

For now, what we’ve said is that we will step by step look for areas and opportunities within our authorities.  As long as Congress still has the embargo in place, there are certain things we can't do.  But there are certain things we can do, for example, on telecommunications, and we're looking for opportunities there.

And we will also continue to press the Cuban government around issues of political freedom.  And when His Holiness the Pope comes, he’s going to be visiting Cuba.  That I think is going to be an opportunity for more interesting conversations inside of Cuba.

My biggest suggestion would be for the BRT just to start having a conversation on a bipartisan basis about lifting the embargo.  It doesn't necessarily have to happen -- or even should happen all in one fell swoop.  But I think if you look at the economic opportunities that are presented, they're significant.  And it doesn't make much sense that a country 90 miles off the shore of Florida that is not at this point a significant threat to us, and that has shown itself willing to at least look beyond its borders for the first time -- even if it’s still scared of what it might bring -- it doesn't make sense for us to keep sticking to the old ways of doing business.

I’ll actually take one more question, and then I’ll come around and say hi to everybody.  So anybody else?  Yes, go ahead.

Q    Mr. President, again, thank you.  And I know a topic near to your heart has been education for young folks, and you've spent a lot of time on this.  And many of us have done things private-public partnerships.  And you recently made a comment about computer science for all high school kids, which I think is an important point, because technology is such a broad topic.  It will infiltrate all jobs in the future.

So maybe a chance to make some comments about how you envision something like that actually taking root over the long term that we could make some progress with it -- on scale.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all, I want to commend Ginni and IBM because you guys have done some terrific work.  Anybody who wants some inspiration, go to the high school that IBM is participating in in Brooklyn where kids -- a collaboration between the public school system, the city colleges of New York, the CUNY system and IBM.

And you've got kids from -- most of them, parents never went to college.  A lot of them immigrant kids.  And they are marching through STEM education, pre-engineering education.  They’re getting essentially college credits by the time they’re sophomore or juniors in high school.  They’re able to save money because in five years in high school, they come out with an associate’s degree.  They then either are transferring to a four-year university with those credits, or they’re starting to work with IBM because they’ve been apprenticing and the curriculum design has given them confidence that if they do well, they’re going to be able to get a job.

That model is something that we’re actually looking to try to duplicate all across the country.  And the good news, as I mentioned at the top, is because of the strong work that Arne Duncan has done, the strong work that a lot of governors and local communities have done to increase accountability, creativity, have high expectations for kids, bust through some of the old bureaucratic obstacles.

We are seeing highest reading scores, highest math scores, highest graduation rates.  And part of our goal here is to improve STEM education generally.  A critical element of that is understanding this computer age that these kids are immersed.  And I don’t want them just to know how to use their phone to play video games; I want them to know how that phone works, and potentially code it and program it.

And what’s remarkable -- I’m about the age where -- I think my high school just had, like, the first coding class when I was maybe in seventh or eighth grade.  But this is what -- you had, like, those cards, and it was -- and the punch cards.  And now, the way these -- the tools and resources that are available for kids starting in first, second grade -- we have these science fairs and these little Girl Scout troops come in and they’ve coded, they’ve designed their own games, and -- or simulations of entire towns with people and all kinds of scenarios that they’ve figured out.

And so it’s actually something that they naturally gravitate to.  We just have to start early.  It’s almost like a foreign language, where rather than try to catch kids when they’re in tenth, eleventh, twelfth grade, they get part of the broader curriculum and incorporate it into how you’re teaching math and how you’re teaching science and how you’re teaching social studies.  That seems to be the way in which kids get most engaged.

So we’re doing a lot of work with many of you individually as companies on this STEM education issue.  We hope that you will continue to participate.  You’ve been great partners on that front.

I’ll just say in closing, it’s always a pleasure to be here.  I want to just reiterate, as we enter into the silly season of politics, that the primary thing that is holding back a lot of potential growth, jobs, improved bottom lines, greater stability is well within our control right now, and are things that traditionally enjoyed bipartisan support -- Ex-Im Bank, getting TPP done, financing and executing on an infrastructure policy.  I’ve had conversations with folks like Larry Fink and others about if we’re open to looking at new, creative ways of financing it, but the notion that we’re not doing that right now makes absolutely no sense -- investing in research and development.

These are not partisan issues.  There are some areas where there have traditionally been legitimate arguments between Democrats and Republicans.  There are some issues -- like on environmental regulations, or financial regulations, where Jamie and I may disagree, or Nick and I may disagree.  And we can have those arguments, and we probably won’t convince each other on some of these things.

But what I’m looking at is the low-hanging fruit that are no-brainers and that nobody here would argue with.  And the notion that we’re not doing them right now because -- primarily because a faction within one of our parties has gone off the rails and sees a conspiracy around everything, or simply is opposed to anything I propose even if they used to propose it, that’s a problem.

And I think it’s very important for all of you to just step back and take a look at it, because you still have influence on at least some of those folks.  And challenge them.  Why wouldn’t we do things that everybody knows make sense?

Thank you, everybody.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, it is a wonderful honor and pleasure to welcome His Majesty King Felipe to the Oval Office.  We’ve had occasion to meet before but this is the first time that he has visited while I’ve been in office in an official capacity.  So welcome, Your Majesty.

His Majesty is here in part to celebrate in St. Augustine, Florida, the oldest Spanish settlement here in the hemisphere, 450 years, which in Europe is a very brief time, but here in the United States that’s a very long time.

So that visit is a reminder of the long history and bonds between our two peoples.  At the same time, we want to wish on behalf of the American people, a happy birthday to Her Majesty, the Queen.  She is currently being hosted by Michelle.  And given the Queen’s outstanding work on issues like hunger and malnutrition, she and Michelle I’m sure have a lot to talk about.

His Majesty and I have had an excellent conversation in which we reaffirmed what both the Spanish people and the American people understand, which is we have an outstanding, long-lasting friendship and alliance that is important not only to our two countries but also to the NATO alliance and also to the world.

I emphasized to His Majesty our great appreciation for the security agreements and bilateral ties, the fact that Spain is a host for so many Americans who every single day are working to keep us safe and working together, side by side with Spanish armed servicemembers, to provide the collective security that’s so important to us all.

I expressed appreciation for the work we’re doing side by side in training Afghan security forces and pushing back against ISIL and other extremists in the Middle East; the counterterrorism efforts that we engage in together, including strong cooperation with our intelligence services; and the peacekeeping efforts that Spain engages in in places like Lebanon that are not only important to our security but also are important in keeping people safe and providing humanitarian assistance.

We also had the opportunity to discuss the migration crisis that’s taking place currently in Europe.  And Spain has worked hard to deal with this issue in the past with North African migrants that oftentimes are engaged in very dangerous travels, and human trafficking that takes place.  Obviously, that’s gotten worse over the last several months.

And we agree that this is going to require cooperation with all the European countries and the United States and the international community in order to ensure that people are safe; that they are treated with shared humanity; and that we ultimately have to deal with the source of the problem, which is the ongoing crisis in Syria.  And we discussed how we can continue to strengthen that cooperation.  And I discussed the fact that the United States feels it is important for us to also take our share of Syrian refugees as part of this overall humanitarian effort.

We discussed economic cooperation.  I congratulated Spain on the progress that it’s made in recovering from a brutal recession, but recognized that more work needs to be done on both sides of the Atlantic to improve opportunity and prosperity for our people.  And whether it’s working together on trade agreements or entrepreneurship that encourage greater formation of small and medium-sized businesses that can create jobs and opportunity, we are coordinating closely with the Spanish government to ensure that we continue to deepen the economic cooperation that already exists.

And let me just say in conclusion that in the past, the Spanish people have hosted my family.  I hope that I can travel to Spain before the end of my presidency.  There’s no country that I’d enjoy more for a visit.  And I think that sentiment is shared by the American people.  We feel a great affinity and a great friendship with the Spanish people.

And as a matter of foreign policy, we are deeply committed to maintaining a relationship with a strong and unified Spain.  We think that Spain’s presence is important not only to Europe, but also to the United States and also to the world.  And the leadership that His Majesty has shown during his first year in the throne I think has been an outstanding example for all of us.

So we are very grateful for his visit and hope that he has a wonderful trip down to Florida.

KING FELIPE:  Thank you, Mr. President.  I would like to say a few words in English and then also in Spanish if that's okay with all of you gentlemen, ladies.

First of all, I would like to thank President Obama for this opportunity to come and visit, to be here at the White House in this first official visit I do as King of Spain, as head of state, to the United States.

There’s a long history of our relationships.  There’s a long history about the links of Spain to this great country.  And all of that comes to front in this -- is present and this President.

I follow in the footsteps of my father.  He’s had a longstanding relationship with many Presidents of the United States.  And also my presence here brings to mind memories of my time in Washington as a student.  I spent two years here in Georgetown University, my alma mater.  And now being here as a head of state, visiting the White House brings a lot of emotion to this opportunity.

And I want to thank the President, as well, for this opportunity to reflect and to mention all those issues that bind us closely together and comes to -- brings us together into our commitments to continue the flourishing of our bilateral relations, and also our shared efforts in the international community and to address all those global issues that are pressing so strongly.

When we talk about history, of course, this visit is being held at a moment where we're celebrating 450 years, as you mentioned, of the city of St. Augustine, the first European permanent settlement in the U.S.  And we will be visiting both Miami and St. Augustine.  There’s a lot of history that we’ll be remembering.

When I went this morning to visit Mount Vernon, I wanted to start off this visit with that emotional touch honoring and respecting the first U.S. President, George Washington, and also reflecting upon the history that binds us together with the birth of this nation and your strive for independence in which Bernardo de Galvez, as you know, had a very important participation.

He has gained for his own merit the honor of being considered honorary citizen of the United States -- not too many people have accomplished that.  And we happened to see his portrait on the Foreign Relations Senate Committee and closely to Friar Junípero Serra’s statue, another Spaniard that has taken a very strong role in the history of this country and is soon going to be canonized by Pope Francis in his visit in coming days.

I would like to share what I expressed to the President in terms of admiration and respect to this great nation.  We have respect as allies, as friends.  We appreciate the ongoing relationships of all our governments.  And because we share many values, share values of greater liberty, of unity, of democracy, and, obviously, also human rights and respect for diversity, and admiration because of the success throughout history that the American people have come to build this great nation, and to perform a role -- not an easy role in the world, and always striving to help other nations find their way to democracy and to stability and to peace.

I would like to say a few words in Spanish, if you will.

(Speaks Spanish.)

KING FELIPE:  Mr. President, I would like to stress the fact that we would very much enjoy and appreciate to see you in Spain if it’s possible before you finish your term.  We would very gladly welcome that opportunity.  But anyhow later on.

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Well, I’ll come a lot, Your Majesty, after I’m President.  That’s easy.  (Laughter.)

KING FELIPE:  Well, we’d welcome you with open arms.  And thank you again for this opportunity and for your friendship.

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Thank you, so much.  Appreciate it.

THE PRESIDENT:  Everybody have a seat.  Welcome to the White House.  And welcome back to the -- surprisingly enough -- NCAA Champions, the UConn Huskies!  (Applause.)  We have some rabid members of Congress here today.  And not only do we have some of the current delegation, but we also have Connecticut’s own former Senator Chris Dodd here.  (Applause.)

We have the chairman of the University of Connecticut’s Board of Trustees, Larry McHugh is here.  Give him a big round of applause.  (Applause.)  The Huskies’ athletic director, Warde Manuel, who is having a pretty good run it appears.  (Applause.)  And a frequent visitor and friend to the White House, Coach Geno Auriemma.  (Applause.)

As some of you may be aware, this is Coach’s tenth championship.  This is this team’s third visit in a row.  They are now certified to provide White House tours.  (Laughter.)  I was telling folks, this is becoming like the annual Christmas tree lighting.  (Laughter.)  We do this every year around this time.

Now, last season began with something unusual for these Huskies, which was a loss.  In their second game, Stanford needed overtime to snap UCONN’s 47-game winning streak.  For this team, it was just a wakeup call.  There was, as Associate Head Coach Chris Dailey would say, no dilly and no dally.  (Laughter.)

So Breanna Stewart, the National Player of the Year two years in a row -- she has game -- (laughter and applause) -- she reminded everybody how hard this team works to be the best.  She said, “We make it look easier than it is, but it comes with a lot of hard work.  We don’t just step on the court and get the trophy.  We have to get better.  Each year, it seems there is someone else trying to test us and push us to our breaking point.”

So Breanna may have been Player of the Year, but she was far from alone.  This group of young women understand the concept of team.  And this team was loaded.  Kia Nurse.  Morgan Tuck.  Kaleena Mosqueda Lewis, who I will not challenge in a HORSE game.  (Laughter.)  The Huskies’ point guard in the past two championships, Moriah Jefferson, who’s got speed.  After they won this last championship game, Moriah said, “I think this one for me is by far the most exciting.  It’s definitely one of the ones that means the most because we had to fight so hard.”

And so now, here they are.  And like my daughters, they apparently like Beyoncé, and they are now running the world.

That competitive spirit extends to their marathon Uno tournaments in the locker room.  Kiah Stokes, one of the hardest-working players on and off the court, is the reigning locker room Uno champion.  (Laughter.)  Go ahead and -- she’s proud of that.  (Laughter.)  They’re also academic all-stars.  These women won an award for achieving the highest GPA of any women’s basketball team in their conference, and half the team made the Dean’s List.  (Applause.)  You know, when I see the men’s teams, generally I say, you know, have you paid attention to the women’s teams?  (Laughter.)  And they go, yeah.  (Laughter.)

Over the past four years, every Husky who has completed their four years of eligibility at UConn has graduated.  And that’s something worth celebrating.

These women are also all-stars in their communities.  They run Thanksgiving and winter food drives.  They help stock shelves at local food banks.  They put on a Christmas party for children with terminal illnesses.  They spend their afternoons with senior citizens.  They host basketball clinics and bike drives for kids in downtown Hartford.

So they are outstanding basketball players, more importantly, outstanding citizens, outstanding role models for our kids -- and not just for our girls but also for our boys.  They are fun to be with, I’ve gotten used to it.  (Laughter.)  And I couldn’t be prouder of them.

And I always say this, but it bears repeating -- when I’ve got two daughters who are tall and gorgeous and athletic, for them to know that they’ve got a whole bunch of people ahead of them who are doing great stuff, it empowers them and it makes me feel very proud to be with these outstanding young women.

So congratulations to all the Huskies.  I don’t want to jinx it -- no team has ever won four in a row.  (Laughter.)  I’m just saying.  (Laughter.)  You get here one more time, we might have to name the White House basketball court after you, or at least you can guide the tour.  (Laughter.)

So with that, let me have Coach Auriemma say a few words.  And as I said before, no bunny ears this time.  (Laughter and applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Everybody have a seat.  Welcome to the White House.  And welcome back to the -- surprisingly enough -- NCAA Champions, the UConn Huskies!  (Applause.)  We have some rabid members of Congress here today.  And not only do we have some of the current delegation, but we also have Connecticut’s own former Senator Chris Dodd here.  (Applause.)

We have the chairman of the University of Connecticut’s Board of Trustees, Larry McHugh is here.  Give him a big round of applause.  (Applause.)  The Huskies’ athletic director, Warde Manuel, who is having a pretty good run it appears.  (Applause.)  And a frequent visitor and friend to the White House, Coach Geno Auriemma.  (Applause.)

As some of you may be aware, this is Coach’s tenth championship.  This is this team’s third visit in a row.  They are now certified to provide White House tours.  (Laughter.)  I was telling folks, this is becoming like the annual Christmas tree lighting.  (Laughter.)  We do this every year around this time.

Now, last season began with something unusual for these Huskies, which was a loss.  In their second game, Stanford needed overtime to snap UCONN’s 47-game winning streak.  For this team, it was just a wakeup call.  There was, as Associate Head Coach Chris Dailey would say, no dilly and no dally.  (Laughter.)

So Breanna Stewart, the National Player of the Year two years in a row -- she has game -- (laughter and applause) -- she reminded everybody how hard this team works to be the best.  She said, “We make it look easier than it is, but it comes with a lot of hard work.  We don’t just step on the court and get the trophy.  We have to get better.  Each year, it seems there is someone else trying to test us and push us to our breaking point.”

So Breanna may have been Player of the Year, but she was far from alone.  This group of young women understand the concept of team.  And this team was loaded.  Kia Nurse.  Morgan Tuck.  Kaleena Mosqueda Lewis, who I will not challenge in a HORSE game.  (Laughter.)  The Huskies’ point guard in the past two championships, Moriah Jefferson, who’s got speed.  After they won this last championship game, Moriah said, “I think this one for me is by far the most exciting.  It’s definitely one of the ones that means the most because we had to fight so hard.”

And so now, here they are.  And like my daughters, they apparently like Beyoncé, and they are now running the world.

That competitive spirit extends to their marathon Uno tournaments in the locker room.  Kiah Stokes, one of the hardest-working players on and off the court, is the reigning locker room Uno champion.  (Laughter.)  Go ahead and -- she’s proud of that.  (Laughter.)  They’re also academic all-stars.  These women won an award for achieving the highest GPA of any women’s basketball team in their conference, and half the team made the Dean’s List.  (Applause.)  You know, when I see the men’s teams, generally I say, you know, have you paid attention to the women’s teams?  (Laughter.)  And they go, yeah.  (Laughter.)

Over the past four years, every Husky who has completed their four years of eligibility at UConn has graduated.  And that’s something worth celebrating.

These women are also all-stars in their communities.  They run Thanksgiving and winter food drives.  They help stock shelves at local food banks.  They put on a Christmas party for children with terminal illnesses.  They spend their afternoons with senior citizens.  They host basketball clinics and bike drives for kids in downtown Hartford.

So they are outstanding basketball players, more importantly, outstanding citizens, outstanding role models for our kids -- and not just for our girls but also for our boys.  They are fun to be with, I’ve gotten used to it.  (Laughter.)  And I couldn’t be prouder of them.

And I always say this, but it bears repeating -- when I’ve got two daughters who are tall and gorgeous and athletic, for them to know that they’ve got a whole bunch of people ahead of them who are doing great stuff, it empowers them and it makes me feel very proud to be with these outstanding young women.

So congratulations to all the Huskies.  I don’t want to jinx it -- no team has ever won four in a row.  (Laughter.)  I’m just saying.  (Laughter.)  You get here one more time, we might have to name the White House basketball court after you, or at least you can guide the tour.  (Laughter.)

So with that, let me have Coach Auriemma say a few words.  And as I said before, no bunny ears this time.  (Laughter and applause.)
